Nothing matters except AI, [music]
AI, AI, and a little more AI.
>> It's a very narrow market. The earnings
are being drawn very, very small slice.
>> We're in a high-risisk bull market.
>> It does feel a bit like a meltup.
>> Our personal view is to hedge.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, demand meets supply.
Alphabet planning a monster $80 billion
equity capital raise as Berkshire
Hathaway is tapping into a $400 billion
cash pile. Anthropic is taking steps
towards a blockbuster public offering.
Stocks just about holding on to record
highs,
>> which is the notable aspect of all this
given [music] how much supply is coming
to market. This is coming on the heels
of bankers going to all of these tech
companies and saying, "This is your
moment. If you want to tap the public
markets, well, welcome to now. And
ultimately, you have a race to try to
see who can set the tone first. Is it
going to be anthropic? Is it going to be
open AI? SpaceX clearly has the lead.
Everyone loves what they're seeing.
Earnings are coming in strong. Are they
tapping the market at the very top?
>> It's funny, we're talking about this
race to IPO. Anthropic, OpenAI, SpaceX.
Alphabet got there first. That $80
billion equity capital raise is [music]
bigger than the SpaceX IPO. They got in
early.
>> Yeah. If you look at the $75 billion
raised from SpaceX or potentially to be
raised [music] by that nearly $2
trillion IPO, you look at uh Apple and
they are reipoing for $80 billion which
is the biggest ever offering of its kind
including different tanches including a
10 billion piece taken down by
Bergkshire Hathaway. [music] They need
creative ways to finance themselves. If
they all do it with debt then they have
to worry about concentration risk. They
are becoming creative as they are trying
to finance multi-t trillion dollar uh
capital spending programs. Alphabet
wants to recreate itself as a chip
company. [music] It has gained in the
TPU space. It is seeing from the market.
The market is wide open for them.
>> Alphabet has their hands in everything.
[music] They're a competitor of Nvidia
now in the chip space. They're a
competitor obviously with Anthropic and
Open AAI when it comes to Google Gemini.
This company is one of the biggest
buyers of [music] stock on Wall Street,
which is why I was shocked yesterday
when I read this headline that [music]
they want to raise money. Mandep Singh
of Bloomberg Intelligence said, "It's
all about compute. Compute equals
revenue.
>> [music]
>> Chase compute, you're chasing revenue.
>> So, we've got some of the biggest
companies on the planet. Just take a
beat. The biggest companies on the
planet investing like they're
confronting existential risk. Right now,
they're starting to [music] tap all
different parts of the capital
structure. Okay? So, they've gone after
the debt market in different currencies
over at Alphabet. The four-month binge
is $60 billion, by the way, on the debt
[music] side, and now they're going
after the equity side. The other
interesting piece of this story, I
think, is the Berkshire Hathaway piece
of this.
>> [music]
>> They've been sat on a $400 billion cash
bar for a while now and they're starting
to tap into it, too. The amount of money
slloshing around, the amount of paper
that's been moved [music] in just the
last 4 months has been absolutely
incredible.
>> What's even more mind-numbing is that
[music] you haven't seen valuations go
down. They just continue to go up, which
really suggests how much cash there is.
[music]
Is it going to run out at some point?
Well, sensibly, yes. which is the reason
why Anthropic wants [music] to get in
before open AI so that he can set the
tone maybe in a more positive way uh
before the gates close. Nonetheless,
this is the reason why people are saying
this monetary condition, the financial
conditions right now are incredibly
easy. So for companies that want to
raise money at the moment [music] is
now.
>> We hear this question a lot. What
innings are we in? How long is the
runway? The first place I'd be looking
for potential [music] constraints are
so-called capital constraints. Look at
Alphabet this morning. Alphabet's down
about 2 or 3%. That's not a big move.
That's not a major sign of capital
constraints. That's why I'm laser
focused on right now. Didn't see push
back in the debt market. It's hard to
make the argument this morning that
you're seeing push back [music] in the
equity market.
>> Over the past 12 months, Alphabet shares
are up more than almost actually almost
120%. Uh a 2 and a half% pullback is not
really a pullback. To your point, this
is a market saying we are wide [music]
open and we believe in your uh
objective. My whole thing though is as
we see more of these numbers, as we see
more of these companies [music] come to
market, what is going to happen in
Washington DC? We are talking about an
insane amount of money. [music] Mendep
Singh said even though the CFO of
Alphabet said in April that the
company's capex in 2027 will be quote
significantly higher than the 190
billion it [music] budgeted for 2026.
Bloomberg Intelligence says 2027
cap X could reach $300 billion. Actually
next year 2020 yeah next year 2027 could
reach $300 billion. [music]
That is an insane amount of money. And
at some point, you're going to hear this
become a huge issue [music] on the right
and the left because they're going to
say everyday people should get a share.
>> Well, let's talk about the earnings, and
we'll get to that point in [music] just
a moment. The earnings from HPE, check
it out. In the pre-market, that stock
higher [music] by 26%. We have seen
moonshot after moonshot following
earnings. This is another one. And if
you look at the guidance from that
company relative to expectations,
[music]
they're absolutely crushing estimates.
>> Well, this is what I was going to say.
On one hand, you could say take a look
at this and say [music] investors are
just getting irrational. Investors are
looking at this backdrop and they're
saying we're caught up in AI fever. Then
you take a look at the expectations.
[music] Revenue will increase about 31%
in the fiscal year ending October. That
was [music] versus expectations for 19%.
You don't see uh raises like this. Then
they gave a guide for 2027 just to say
look we have the idea that this is going
to continue up about 10% versus the 5.3%
that was expected by the street. The
beats are phenomenal, which is the
[music] reason why so many people say
when you ask them, "Are you worried
about froth?" They turn, they look at
you, and they say, "Earnings, earnings,
earnings." And when you ask them again,
they say, "Earnings, earnings,
earnings." That's what we hear from
everyone.
>> Earnings driving that move in a
pre-market. HP higher by around 25%
[music] this morning. Futures just
pulling back from alltime highs, down
about a tenth of 1%. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Martin Horn of
Bearings as Alphabet plans to raise $80
billion. Ted Mornerson of Bed as
Anthropic passes OpenAI in the race to
go public and Kit Jigs of Sockchen on
why a rate hike is off the table for
now. We begin this hour with Alphabet
planning to raise 80 billion in equity
to ramp up spending on artificial
intelligence. Martin Horn of Bearings
writing, "Equity market leadership is
narrow with IT stocks driving
performance. This is an earningsled tech
rally rather than multiple expansion."
Martin, we've heard that a few times.
Welcome to the program, sir. It's good
to catch up with you.
>> Good morning.
>> Here comes the supply. Martin, Alphabet
tapping the equity market. We're going
to see major IPOs later this year. How
do you think the demand stacks up with
the increase in supply we're expecting
in the year ahead?
>> Well, you you know well that the
financial markets for a while have been
dealing on a wall of momentum. Um we've
seen it in other asset classes like
gold, like Bitcoin, like meme stocks,
like mag seven enthusiasm. And right now
we're in the middle of the the AI growth
and the wall of money that's available
to fund these huge huge IPOs and the
debt issuance that's going along with
some of the hyperscalers is there. How
far it will go. We're all testing the
market right now. Um you wouldn't want
to be a small IPO following the big
three that are coming in the near term.
Uh but at the moment it it pays I think
not to overintellectualize what's
happening in the market because we've
seen what momentum of money does. You
guys summarized it really really well in
your introduction. This is backed by
earnings. So it feels a little different
from the.com bubble vibes that we may
have got uh just a few months ago. And
now we see some substance coming through
that's just going to bring that
enthusiasm to greater levels I think.
>> Yeah. sort of the less you know, which
is something that we keep hearing from
some of our strategists here uh in New
York. A question about something you
noted, smaller companies might not want
to IPO right now. Who are these big
companies sucking capital away from? Is
there a crowding out effect as a lot of
people clear the decks to buy into these
IPOs? Yeah,
>> listen, we're all in unknown territory
on that because we've never seen three
big IPOs, the likes of which we've got
lined up right now on quite the same
scale with quite the same enthusiasm
surrounding them. There's lots of sort
of technical analysis going on that you
have to buy these three names and that
certain market participants will be
forced into buying these IPOs on the
break. So, that feels a bit
bubble-esque. that feels a bit
dislocated from where true valuations
lie. But as you guys have noted on over
many many months, being too prescriptive
about where true valuations lie is
really a a crystal ball gazing exercise
at the moment because the earnings
trajectory you're seeing out of every
one of these companies that's issuing in
the AI space right now is just going up
and up and we would not have forecast
quite what we're seeing today, 6 months
ago. Let's see what we're going to see
in 6 months from now. Can you hedge
against this trend? Does it pay to?
>> I don't think so. Um uh I think if if
this falls off the tracks um all markets
are going to sort of correlate to one.
So um I I I think this is such a
momentum trade that if we lose um
enthusiasm or belief in the AI trade
that is partly driven by the fact that
we can all see it. your organization, my
organization, all of the businesses out
there are trying to reconfigure their
business model. So, we're buying into
this wholly at every level of the
industrial footprint, if you like. And
if this falls off the tracks, I think
you're going to see a major market
correction. Um, God willing, we won't be
there.
>> As you note, the leadership is so narrow
with these specific stocks. Do you see
any momentum or catalyst for it to
broaden out?
>> You would hope so. you you would hope so
because that would be a healthier market
trend. But actually at the moment um if
you're an active manager or a passive
manager in in this space um you know
where the growth is coming from and you
know that um the the current earning
season is only going to infuse you more.
So, you know, we haven't even touched on
Iran uh and what's going on in the real
world. And if you sort of broaden your
reach out to inflation and rates and how
companies are going to deal with tariff
problems, what's going to happen to
energy and energy pricing with this AI
roll out, all of that would make you
feel a little less bullish about sort of
the broader marketplace. Um, and at the
moment, I think the one trade that
everybody's following is is in that
narrow band, and we're going to see that
continue in the near term anyway.
>> Well, that's where all the optimism is.
We're 10 minutes into the program. Maybe
we should talk about Iran. There's
there's no deal in sight at the moment.
Um, very different readouts between
Israel and the United States in terms of
what's happening. If we remain in this
paralysis till the end of the year, what
is going to be the risk and the impact?
Well, look, there's a lot of clever
analysts that will tell you that June
30th was quite a big date for certainly
gas restocking. If you look at just the
European gas supply levels or uh holding
levels right now, they're at about 40%
when normally at this time of year, they
would be at 55% of what you need to get
you through the kind of winter months.
So, we're lagging. Um 30th of J uh June
was a big date because that's when you
get the big restock uh for winter
periods occurring in places like China,
in places like Europe. So we are going
to be lagging going into the winter.
That seems like a a reasonable um
assumption and that could lead uh
depending on who you listen to either
mild disruption which ultimately is what
we saw after in 2022 when Russia invaded
Ukraine and Europe had similar um uh
similar issues with fuel supply to
really severe disruption depending on
how long this goes on for. Um uh we all
believe that the all parties are
motivated to find a solution. So we're
clinging on for that for now, but every
week that goes past, we've got to adjust
that assumption as we see new new news
feeds. I'm afraid the wider financial
market is just isn't focused on this
right now. It's all about AI
>> and yet they haven't found one.
Motivated but haven't found one. Martin,
it's good to see you. It always is.
Thank you, sir. Martin Horn there of
Bearings. You've said this a million
times, Bremo, you can't have an edge on
this topic. So, people started ignoring
it and their focused minds on what was
happening in technology, high conviction
bets. I've asked the question, has tech
rallied despite the situation in the
Middle East or because of the situation
in the Middle East? And the response
I've had is maybe both.
>> Yeah. On one hand, you have of course uh
really good earnings, which is the
reason why people are going on in spite
of what's going on in the Middle East.
But it also is the one isolated reality
that really doesn't have some sort of
lynch pin in the Middle East, which
means it's analyzable and potentially
you can get an edge, which is the reason
why people view it as such a refreshing
trade versus saying will they or won't
they in the uh in in the uh straight of
>> we'll play that game in just a moment.
Will they or won't they? Just about
pulling back from record highs this
morning, down a tenth of 1% on the S&P
with an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more.
Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Now we are seeing Huelet
Packard Enterprise shares rising 25% in
the pre-market. The company forecasting
a bitter than bigger than expected sales
jump for this year and next citing
strong [music] demand for its AI servers
and networking.
Anthropic moving ahead in the AI race
filing for an IPO ahead of rival Open
AI. The company saying in a blog post
that the number of shares to be offered
and the price have not yet [music] been
set.
And the costs of competing in AI keeps
[music] climbing. Alphabet is raising
$80 billion through a package of equity
offerings including an investment deal
with Berkshire Hathaway. The company
plans to use the money to build
infrastructure for artificial
intelligence [music]
and meet soaring demand for its chips.
Mr. Bloomberg brief John
>> Yhara. Thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yihara in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, peace
talks hitting a wall.
>> Iran is very much uh intent. They want
very much to make a deal. So far, they
haven't gotten there.
>> They come to the table. They're begging
to make a deal. They want to make a deal
badly. And we'll see if we get there.
>> There was a moment in the last 24 hours
where it felt like trade talks from 8
years [music] ago. Talks are on. Talks
are off. Talks are on. Talks are off.
That was the last 24 hours.
>> Yeah. And from Iran, talks are off. The
US talks are on. Iran, not so sure. The
US, yes, they are. Israel, we're still
doing our thing. The US, everyone's in
peace. I mean, it's sort of this curious
moment.
>> The deal's coming. Up next, Colonel
Wayne Sanders of Bloomberg Intelligence
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
8day winning run on the S&P 500 [music]
this morning. This morning we're
throwing a lot at this equity market. An
$80 billion [music]
equity capital raise from Alphabet. That
stock is only down by 2% this morning.
Futures are negative by just 0.1%.
The more bullish side of the story, I
guess, is Burkshire Hathaway sitting on
a major cash pile. Signs over [music]
the last week or so. Two major signs
they're starting to put some of their
cash to work under new leadership. Greg
Ael [music] is making his stamp known
and this comes after he took the helm.
These [music] are his first big
purchases. On one hand, you have
Bergkshire Hathway going after a home
building company at a time when they're
expecting, I'm sure, some policy
response to the affordable housing
crisis [music] and then going after
getting a stake in the tech buildout.
This is notably a departure from [music]
Warren Buffett who really stayed away
from some of the tech buildout. Does
this invite everybody else to come in?
Does this indicate a der of other
opportunities or does this indicate that
sitting on cash is going to be an
ultimate problem given the fact that
we're in an inflationary moment?
>> So there are plenty of bearish angles on
the alphabet story and we'll cover them
extensively. Don't worry about that. But
the bullish angle we're deploying $400
billion of cash [music] potentially at
least a little bit here and there and
and you want to be bearish right now.
That would be the bullish angle [music]
to this story. And the bulls are winning
because if you're a bear, how are you
going to hedge? And how are you going to
keep your money? And what are you going
to tell your investors when you're far
far behind? We were just talking with
the guy from bearings who [music]
basically said there's no way to hedge
against this. And if you do, it's not
clear that it's actually going to be a
hedge because if you do get some sort of
break in this story about the AI
buildout, everything's going to
correlate to one and everything's going
to go [music] down. So you either get on
the train or you get steamrololled over
and ultimately that's where everyone is.
>> Check out the bond market this morning.
Yields a little bit lower. We're down a
basis point [music] or two at the front
end of the curve. 4.0. 01% kind of
anchored around four more recently off
the back of this move in crude [music]
yesterday higher now lower just by a
touch we're down 1% on Brent to $94 a
barrel [music] under Savannah this
morning peace talks hitting a wall
>> Iran is very much uh intent they want
very much to make a deal so far they
haven't gotten there we have to have a
deal that's acceptable to me they come
to the table they're begging to make a
deal they want to make a deal badly and
we'll see if we get Yeah,
>> they think that they are getting very
close to making a deal.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
president holding an exploitive filled
call with the Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu. According to Axios,
Trump calling Netanyahu crazy as Israeli
strikes in Lebanon weigh on peace talks
with Iran. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now for more. Tyler, good
morning.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, this
reporting goes on to say that President
Trump's anger seemed to be primarily
driven by the fact that the escalation
in Lebanon was risking derailing the US
Iran peace negotiations. Keep in mind,
Israel is not a party to those talks,
but Iran has repeatedly maintained that
a ceasefire in Lebanon needs to be part
of any deal. And that prompted President
Trump to get personally involved in the
diplomacy, holding this reportedly tense
call with Netanyahu as well as a
separate conversation with
representatives of Hezbollah. After
that, he said that both sides did agree
to stop firing on each other and that
then the US Iran talks were proceeding
at a quote rapid pace. Israeli Prime
Minister Netanyahu did confirm that
Israel was planning to hold off on some
planned strikes near Beirut in response
to Hezbollah firing nearly 300
projectiles in recent days, but he said
otherwise the Israeli campaign in
southern Lebanon would continue. It
marks just the latest friction point in
the ongoing negotiations. But John, it's
also probably worth pointing out for
context here. Before the conflict
started, the US wanted to see Iran stop
its support of proxy militia groups like
Hezbollah. But at the moment, that
doesn't seem to be part of the ongoing
conversation. In fact, yesterday,
Iranian state media reported that the
quote axis of resistance would be
activated on all front in reference to
the militia groups that it supports and
threatened that its proxies in Yemen
could move to close another vital
shipping route off of the coast of uh
the southern Red Sea by utilizing some
of those proxies in Yemen.
>> That's the last thing we need. Tyler,
thank you. Tyler Kendall down in
Washington DC to build on this
conversation. Colonel Wayne Sanders of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Colonel, welcome
to the program. I won't pretend to know
where we are in negotiations. Let's
focus on something where we have some
visibility. How many ships are actually
getting through the straight form right
now because it just feels to me there's
a bit of drip feed picking up here there
and everywhere in the past few days.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I think that USCOM is
and fifth fleet are really trying to be
able to provide additional uh additional
flexibility for these right. there still
from uh from the way that they're
looking at it right now is anything that
is Iranbased
uh they're still not letting through.
But in terms of an increase in some of
the uh the momentum, you're actually
starting to see some of that throughout
the strait. So we know that that part is
actually good, but there's always going
to be that threat uh just like Tyler was
talking about. You're still going to
continue to see potential threat from uh
axis of escalation at this point in
time.
>> Well, I have a question here. What is
the basis right now the US is trying to
negotiate? Is it the nuclear deal in
your mind or is it just minimum to get
the straight of Hermoose open and would
you do you think they'd be willing to
ease up the blockade in order to do
that?
>> Yeah, I think I think that they would do
it from a phased approach if they can
actually get the the straight of Hormuz
open at that point in time and even if
they said okay I need 30 days or 60 days
to reach an additional part of the
nuclear deal. What I think they're
trying to do is increase the amount of
momentum to be able to move the straits
open. Right? It's been closed for so
long. it's been so restricted uh in
insurance has gone up. Everything else
that's gone along with that has played
into. So a lot of the political and
information side of the house is playing
into that military uh piece of it. So it
is probably one of the biggest levers
though that the US has is to hold on to
the blockade to make sure that Iran
cannot get any of their oil in or out.
And so you're seeing that even from
Kashm
Car Island and some of the additional
even the military posturing in the area
both from Iran and from us. There's the
proxies. There's the firing on US forces
in the straight of Hermoose. It's not
letting certain ships through. It's
claiming the Iranians that negotiations
are off. What is it going to take
potentially for this administration to
say, you know what, they are off and
we're ending the ceasefire.
>> Yeah, I think I think the US doesn't
want to be the ones that actually do it.
I was actually a little surprised when
uh when Iran fired this weekend and
actually injured some US soldiers. I
thought there may have been a response.
Uh, I thought that by Monday morning we
probably would have seen something.
Maybe not a large escalation, not
something that brings us out of the
ceasefire, but more than what you've
seen from Fifth Fleet and Sentcom so far
against Cashm Island strikes and some of
the other ones in the area. They've kept
that right now as pretty much a
self-defense measure, saying, "Hey,
look, you shot at US bases. You've shot
at uh Gulf State allies of ours, and
they look at that as an imminent threat.
So, we are going to return fire." as
opposed to putting something into place
that says I am going to actually strike
strategic targets that has a larger
center of gravity impact to you.
>> Colonel Sanders, who is President Trump
negotiating with?
So, I I love this question because, you
know, depending on who you're talking to
at the day, right? You you have uh the
the balance of power in Iran right now
is you still have the presidency, you
still have the supreme allied leader,
you still have uh the head of the IRGC,
and you also have the supreme uh
national council. Uh so, you have these
four instruments of power at that point
in time. And so this becomes one of the
biggest pieces that's so difficult right
now is you could be talking to somebody
within the presidency side of the house
as part of the foreign minister and have
those discussions go everything is going
really really well and then you have an
IRGC commander that launches a couple of
Fatah 110 ballistic missiles against a
Gulf state and it starts to degrade the
ability and legitimacy of one of the
other heads uh to be able to make that
deal. So really, you're looking at
trying almost like a four-headed hydra
uh that you have to address all at the
same time to get all four of them in
place at the same time to be able to
reach this agreement.
>> Colonel, appreciate your time as always,
sir. Thank you. Colonel Wayne Sanders of
Bloomberg Intelligence. That question is
the right question.
>> A foreheaded Hydra, that's who he's
negotiating with. It's a difficult
moment. People are tuning out because
how do you understand these different
headlines that are changing by the hour
and really have a different tone
depending on which branch of the
foreheaded hydra it's coming out of? I
often reflect on the ghost call with
China of several years ago. Important
because it signaled intent. Not because
it happened or it didn't happen, but it
signaled intent. The president wanted to
bring down the pressure, the volume, the
noise.
>> There's more than one party in this
negotiation. It was never the same as
the trade story of a year ago, 8 years
ago.
>> Can people ignore it in the same kind of
way and just take the [music] signal and
not necessarily the fact?
>> Futures this morning pulling back by
just a tenth of 1%. Up next, we'll catch
up with Ted Morrison of Bed as Anthropic
pulls ahead in the race to IPO.
Live from New York [music] City this
morning. Good morning to you all. 8day
winning streak on the S&P 500. Just a
small pullback. We're down by [music] a
tenth of 1% on the S&P 500 and just
about unchanged on the NASDAQ. If you
saw that picture, you really wouldn't
have a clue about the news flow of the
last 24 hours. That [music] $80 billion
equity capital raise from Alphabet is an
absolute monster.
>> If you get a sense of it, some
perspective, the SpaceX IPO is planning
to raise $75 billion of cash in this
nearly $2 trillion uh IPO. This is
bigger than that as you just pointed
out, which is notable given that we
already are going to get a whole host of
other IPOs uh sold over the next couple
of months ahead. We're talking about
Anthropic. We're talking about SpaceX.
You put this all together, the market is
Teflon. The market is saying if you want
to come to market, the time is now. And
ultimately, whether it's Iran, [music]
whether it's the glut, whether it's
concerns about inflation, it doesn't
matter because ultimately this market
very much wants to get invested in AI.
And when you look at these numbers,
where are they send [music] putting this
money to? It's TPUs. They're in that
market, which is potentially going to
take [music] share from Nvidia, at least
be a serious competitor. But they are
also a serious competitor when it comes
to the likes of Open AI and Anthropic
which are all trying to get to market as
well. Google is all over the map. This
is to build data centers and this is for
more comput.
>> There's a tax bill in the mix as well.
We'll spend some time on that later. The
stock is down by about 2% in the
pre-markets. We can't get down to the
opening bow 3 hours away. Let's get you
some single names. Some morning movers.
Yahara has more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. Following Dell's blowout
results. The bar was pretty high for HPE
and it managed to clear it with room to
spare. Shares are soaring more than 25%
in the pre-market after it raised its
outlook significantly, pointing to
massive demand for its AI servers and it
was so confident about the demand
backdrop that it even issued an early
outlook for 2027, well ahead [music] of
Wall Street estimates. Uh, meanwhile,
Jensen Wong still over in Taipei and
still moving [music] markets. The latest
is Marval shares also soaring more than
25% in the pre-market after the Nvidia
CEO called the firm the next trillion
dollar company while on stage with
[music] its CEO. But Wang not exactly a
neutral observer here. Earlier this
year, Nvidia did disclose a $2 billion
investment in Marll as they work
together on uh things like uh custom AI
chips and networking [music] technology.
And ahead of its earnings tomorrow, we
are seeing the chipmaker Broadcom shares
[music] soar uh nearly 7% in the
pre-market after HSBC raised its price
[music] target to $600 and said the next
leg of growth uh maybe right around the
corner. Frankly, over at HSBC, expecting
custom AI [music] chip revenue to
inflect uh higher in the second half of
this year due to increased spending uh
from none other than Alphabet, uh
OpenAI, and Anthropic. John [music]
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Jensen on tour. Got to Alaska. Got an
Air Force One. Never came back from
Asia, did he? [music] That was a few
weeks ago. I don't think he left.
>> Well, he's doing pretty well over there.
I mean, honestly, ships are made over
there and he's got some business.
>> He likes the street food. He's out and
about with the people. [music] Yeah,
>> he's having a great time. All right. On
our radar this morning, the big one.
Alphabet raising $80 billion in equity
to fund an unprecedented AI spending
spree. The three-part deal is one of the
largest of all time. the package
including a10 billion share sale to
Berkshire Hathaway. Bergkshire already
holding nearly 40 million shares of
Alphabet as the new CEO Greg Ael
increasingly leans into tech and AI and
starts deploying that $400 billion cash
pile. And finally, Anthropic
confidentially submitting paperwork for
its IPO. The AI giant aiming to beat
rival OpenAI to the market. The price
and number of shares to be offered
unannounced. Anthropic's valuation
sitting close to $1 trillion.
>> When you ask analysts, they say they're
racing. When you ask them, we're not
racing. We just are going to keep our
options open. Yesterday, we heard from
Sam Alman, Dario Amade talking about how
it just could be a good time.
Nonetheless, both of them want to set
the tone. Ultimately, the one who gets
in first is going to have more of a cart
blanch to get a sense a of how much
money is out there, b tap into the
enthusiasm, and c get ahead of any
snafoos that the other guy might make. I
know that right now it seems like
Anthropic has the edge. Does that really
uh increase the impetus for OpenAI to
kind of gun it to market first? And how
often how long will this market remain
so wide open? Isn't this surprising
though that Anthropic gets there first?
Before this year, everyone was saying it
was going to be open AI and Anthropic
was really the underdog and now they've
pretty much overtaken open AI in terms
of where everyone is. The excitement is
where everyone wants to know more about
the compute and the models like Mythos.
They're ahead of Open AI, but it is too
early I guess to say.
>> I was listening to man yesterday with
Faber. Thought he did a fantastic job.
For Altman himself, it was interesting
how much daylight he's starting to put
between him and Amod when it comes to
talking about the future of this
technology and what it might do to
society. I have to say I prefer his
version of the future compared to
anthropics, but increasingly putting
some daylight between the two companies
>> and putting a little bit of daylight
between himself now and himself maybe
two years ago. So, it clearly is a PR
move to try to put a little bit of a
warm and fuzzy approach given how much
push back there's actually been. I just
think if anyone needs vibe coding a use
for their tokens if they need to get up
the leaderboard to make sure that
they're really deploying it.
>> You've got ideas.
>> Yes, please. I I think a biopic or you
know just a a sort of a interesting look
at the rivalry between Sam Alman and
Dario Amade.
>> The movie.
>> The movie. It could be them as fruit.
Whatever you want to do, I think it
would be very wellreceived.
>> The better will be Sam Alman verse Elon
Musk. Besties to bitter enemies.
>> Them as fruit. Okay. I think that's what
you said, right? Yes. No, mine are mine
are humans.
>> Okay. All right. Good to know, guys.
That's the the definition of AI slop,
right? Yes. Rammo can't keep it
together. Okay. Let's move on. Ted
Merson of Bed writing anthropic
represents the new an enterprise AI
operating layer for knowledge, work, and
software development. Ted joins us now
for more. Ted, good morning. It's good
to see you in person. Thanks for being
here. Is there enough space for
everyone?
>> There is in this cycle. Uh this is not
even close to the 2000 cycle. The only
comparison is animal spirits, but uh
this is a major infrastructure um uh
roll out. Nothing that we've seen in in
my lifetime.
>> Unpack some of that for us. How much
runway do you think there is here and
why?
>> Oh jeez. I I think you're talking
anywhere from 5 to 10 years. The
infrastructure comes first, software
comes second. And anthropic is one of
the most disruptive companies. You don't
see companies going from 5 billion to or
9 billion to 47 billion in revenues in
less than a year. I mean, that's
eyepopping.
>> That said, do we have a sense of exactly
what world this is building? In other
words, if this is that disruptive and
all of these dollars are going to
projects that are worth it,
>> how transformative is this going to be
in a way that people really are not
wrapping their heads around?
>> The AI stacks are totally different from
what traditional SAS or software was. I
mean this is a forklift upgrade uh not
only on infrastructure but software and
they're not tied together. I mean
infrastructure is first, software
second. But what Antropic has done is uh
they've not only created the this market
for coding which now for a software
company your cost of goods sold goes
basically to zero. Um that's number one.
So there's huge operating margin
leverage. Second of all just this
knowledge work. If you haven't used
Claude, you should because it will
change the way you go about your
business almost every single day. It
makes you so much more productive. So,
it's very disruptive. Uh the difference
between OpenAI and Entropic is if you
look at OpenAI, they chose to go
consumer and uh Entropic is all
enterprise and that's where the money
is.
>> Does it matter who goes first?
I think it's important to get through
the window because you never know when
the window is going to be shut on your
hands on your fingers. You you just
>> did Alphabet just go first.
>> Yeah, they went first and uh that
surprised a bunch of my clients. I mean,
but that's what's important. The $80
billion
basically extends this cycle through 27
just on capex. If you're a cloud titan,
you know what what Google's saying is,
hey, we need augmentation from our free
cash flow. So 80 billion is a big number
and then you combine all these other
offerings that are coming. This is going
to the infrastructure build's going to
go through 27 pretty aggressively.
>> When it comes to anthropic, you say they
focus on enterprise while open AI was
focusing more on consumer.
>> How can you be an offering for
enterprise if you are labeled a security
threat by the DoD?
>> No, seriously, is this not at some point
going to hurt them?
Uh it could the narrative will be
sculpted in the next few months but
Mythos is a a big big deal. I mean when
Jerome Pal and and Secretary Bessant
call emergency meeting on a Friday and
get uh Glasswing the people what's
called Glasswing the vendors together.
>> I mean talk about an eyeopening
experience. And that's why Palo Alto and
Crowdstrike are straight up. Uh there
there are other small cap companies like
Teneable that that fit into that
glasswing security issue. This is
opening up a whole different total
addressable market.
>> Do you think then the government's going
to have to find other inputs that aren't
anthropic because of the supply chain
risk that the DoD labeled it? Or do you
think at some point the DoD is going to
have to lift their hands and say we have
no choice. We have to work with them.
>> I think it's B
>> B. Wow. Okay. So the do so basically
Pete Hgsth and Emil Michael say you won.
I think there's going to be a cooling
off period and this is a national
defense issue. You cannot have them
sitting on the outside.
>> Ted, can I ask you where you think the
money is going to be made? I don't know
what the sequencing looks like here. The
chip the chip players right now are
making all the money, but when you
describe the sequencing over the next 10
years or so, infrastructure then
software. Where do you think the money
will be made?
>> I think it's going to be in some
specific uh software companies that are
consumptionbased. I mean, you've already
seen it through Data Dog. You've seen it
through Snowflake. I mean these stocks
are straight up because of consumption
adoption of what I call the new versus
the old. So from a software perspective
I think what the street misses is these
free cash flow software names free cash
flow much better than some of the the
infrastructure names. So over the long
term uh the software names that get that
foothold are going to be absolutely
money machines. So, uh, it's going to
take a while for that infrastructure to
pivot, but we're going to see some new
software companies just like we saw new
software companies in the 2000 cycle.
>> Who's losing here? Who's not keeping up
and likely to fail?
>> I think it's the smaller cap company
companies that are features. They don't
have the free cash flow. They don't have
the engineers. They don't have the
scale. Um, the other area would be that,
and it's well known, the SAS companies
have to pivot. I mean when you have uh
revenues that are you know 90% SAS and
10% consumption that pivot is ugly and
for my institutional clients on the
software side the reason the reason why
the IGV was down 30% at one point was
just because nobody could uh work
through their models on that transition
between SAS and consumption and they
couldn't get to a free cash flow number.
So, if you can't get to a free cash flow
number, how do you put a multiple on a
stock? Now, it's getting much clearer. I
think some of the checks coming out of
uh Salesforce on Agent Force are getting
a lot better. Even workday, which
nobody's really focused on. It's kind of
a value name. Uh I'm on 70 plus
conference calls during an earnings
season. It's like the baton death march.
Um [laughter]
it's uh uh workday actually talked up
their agent a their agent momentum and
nobody's paying attention. You got to
listen to these calls. So they'll get
there over time and as they pivot the
free cash flow expands.
>> Just final line of questioning from us.
We're laser focused on potential capital
constraints. No sign of push back in the
debt market. Not for the likes of
Alphabet. They've just gone on a $60
billion four-month debt binge. No sign
of push back in the equity market. Not
for Alphabet again this morning. They're
looking to raise $80 billion in equity
capital and the stock's only down by 2%.
You seeing any signs of that emerging?
Any push back? Any capital constraints
anywhere?
>> Yes.
>> Where do you see it?
>> I I see it on the debt side. Why do you
think all these companies got to go
public?
They they they can't raise it in the in
the in the debt markets, whether it be
private or in the normal debt markets.
The numbers are too big. That's why on a
on a capital side, they've got to go
public. And um where my big concern is
and again is listening to a lot of
companies is inflation is straight up in
the tech area. Uh you listen to HP last
night um you know they're not only
facing shortages but they're passing on
tremendous price increases and the
enterprise the enterprise companies call
it the global 2000 their IT budgets are
up 3 to 4%. Do you think they can
absorb, you know, a a you know, a 10 to
20% price increase on a server? The
answer is no. So, I I think I think
there's going to be an issue with
inflation and I I'd watch a tenure very
closely.
>> So, final question then on that on
inflation and we can talk about the bond
market,
>> but just final question on the push back
that we might see. Do you see that
ending in softer demand or do you see
that ending with cuts to operational
expenses expenses elsewhere? How does a
company respond to those high prices?
>> Uh they go to refurbished markets. I I
don't think the street is focused on the
enterprise at all. Uh they're hurting on
price increases. I mean they have to
upgrade all their infrastructure over
the next 5 years. Networking to storage.
I mean they're somewhat IT constrained.
What's fueling this market is the cloud
titans and it's going to go for a while
just because of that Google news last
night. I mean, you just let you just put
gas in a fire. So,
>> just to wrap it up because a lot of
people want to know. You said watch the
10 year. What are you expecting to
happen?
>> I think personally, this is just my
personal opinion. Please go for it. Uh
it's not the firm's opinion.
>> Uh I think that um we're going to lose
control of the long end. Um, and uh, if
the tenure goes through 5%, uh, I think
there's going to be a lot of portfolio
managers that that look at multiples and
try to figure out, I mean, war is very
inflationary, by the way. And now we've
got one of the biggest cycles in history
where we've got over, you know, call it
735 billion of spend and the supply
chain can't absorb this. So the only
thing if you look at the memory
shortages, they've got to pass it on.
And you know, I I think the inflation
inputs in tech are only up. They're not
down. So that's gonna flow into some of
the data and I think it's really going
to surprise some people.
>> I could speak to you for hours. Ted,
it's good to see you. Thank you, sir.
Thank you very much. Ted Mson there of
bad with a interesting note at the end
there on the bond market. Ultimately, if
you have existential spending and you
have this much existential spending, you
have it in wartime, you have it in
technological buildouts, you have to
imagine that's going to come in some
sort of ramification when it comes to
inflation.
>> Tens this morning, 4:43. Let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Yhira
has more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Secretary of State Marco Rubio
testifying on Capitol Hill today for the
first time since the start of the war in
Iran. His testimony comes as a growing
number of Republicans questioned the
price and economic [music] impact of the
war. Speaking of President Trump and
Israel Prime Minister Netanyahu offering
differing accounts of their call about
Lebanon. [music] Trump using a social
media post to tout an agreement between
Israel and Hezbollah. Netanyahu saying
military action in [music] southern
Lebanon will continue.
The White House says it will reduce
tariffs on agricultural equipment to cut
costs for US farmers and manufacturers.
Levies [music] will drop to 15% from 25%
from next week until the end of the
year. President Trump citing rising
costs as a [music] justification for the
cut. That's your brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, the Fed holding
steady.
>> Our base case view is that the Fed is
likely on hold. We think that they're on
hold through the middle of next year and
then it's going to be data dependent.
>> Kits of Selfchen just around the corner.
8day winning streak this morning [music]
pulling back by just 0.2% 2% on the S&P
down a tenth on the NASDAQ on the
Russell this morning down by 0.15 under
surveance this morning the Fed holding
steady
our base case [music] view is that the
Fed is likely on hold you know we've
seen a huge shift in expectations we
never believe that the the two or three
cuts that we were expecting at the
beginning of the year we don't believe
we're going to see [music] the hikes
that markets are now pricing the Fed's
going to be on a wait and see mode we
think that they're on hold through the
middle of next year and then it's going
to be data dependent
>> so here's the latest this morning US
manufacturing activity expanding at its
fastest pace in four [music] years.
Investors awaiting more data to
reinforce bets on the path for interest
rates. Kit Jukes of Stockgen writing,
"While President Trump's hopes for Fed
easing may be disappointed, hikes are
off the table for now." Kit Jukes joins
us for more. Kit, welcome to the
program, buddy. Good to see you. My
apologies about the result over the
weekend. I'll squeeze that into the end
of the conversation. Kit, how high is
that bar for that rate hike of this
Federal Reserve?
>> It seems very high now. It's not going
to feel so high in 6 9 12 12 months
time. I think the world will eventually
change. Look, the US economy is without
doubt not just outgrowing the rest of
the world, but it's growing pretty
strongly.
>> If that's the case, Kit, uh what is the
barrier to potentially raising rates not
just once, but several times? And we
were just talking to somebody talking
about how uh he sees the vi the 10-year
yield getting unmed with all of the
capital spending from big tech giants.
We're seeing inflationary pressures
coming from myriad different places. I
mean, would it be a problem if they
hiked rates?
>> Well, if you leave it too long and you
hike rates too much too fast, too late,
then then you you know that that is a
rec a recipe for a recession. Um
equally, I almost want to flip it
sideways over here where the danger is
with the slowing economies, we're going
to raise rates. The market thinks we're
going to raise rates in at the ECB
several times, which seems to me sort of
a quicker way to a problem. But yeah, I
think that that that you know, I've
always assumed the Fed's far smart
enough that that they don't get too far
behind the curve and and that what we'll
find is that the story just changes
through time. Uh and that one of the
things about Kevin Walsh now turning up
and being there will be that it'll be
possible to turn that story around make
it clear that this economy is doing um
better than others. The terms of trade
shocks in its favor. Uh obviously the
technology boom is still happening. uh
and uh and and gradually gradually
there'll be a rethink.
>> If that's the case, I'm wondering if you
push that through the currency channel,
what that means. If you have rate hikes
that are a mistake in your view from the
ECB, they could potentially create an
economic problem and you have a US
economy going strong and a Federal
Reserve that sits on its hands. Do you
want to own the dollar or do you want to
sell it?
>> I want to own it. I mean, I'm, you know,
I'm not I'm not relaxed about it, but I
get asked, you know, why if you think if
we think that that rates are going to go
up in Europe, why why don't I want to
own the euro? Because they're going up
despite there not being enough growth.
Fundamentally, that's the issue that
that tightening into weak growth
environments is just going to make
things worse. Uh whereas in the United
States, what's holding me back is is is
a a central bank that doesn't recognize
the the problem at hand. Um but they'll
get there because that, you know, that's
the kind of organization it is. Um
there's a lot of people on the FOMC, a
lot of regional governors who will uh
who will react to what they see in front
of them with the economy. Uh and I think
in due course that's going to argue that
yeah, we're neutral, not at super easy
policy, but we need to be better than
that. Numbers like this morning's they
just push in that direction.
>> Kit though, there was an ECB report that
says gold replaces US treasuries as the
world's top reserve asset. Are you
worried about ddollarization?
um at the margin. I mean the dollar's
been the world's reserve currency to a
much greater degree and for longer than
for example the pound was. It's so that
the global economy is is so dependent on
it that we get ddollarization at the
margin in in the same way as that
there's not enough gold in the world to
replace a fraction of the US treasuries
uh that people might want to own
instead. So yeah, at the margin um that
there'll be some of that and and the
dollar will be less dominant, but um
it'll probably still be more dominant
than Sterling was 150 years ago.
>> What does the ECB have in common with
Arsenal Football Club Kit?
>> Uh that they are too defensive. That's
the fundamental issue in my heart. That
their their game plan isn't going to win
them the Champions League. That that's
probably the quick way of putting it.
the the US is uh is the the Fed is much
more like much more like Paris San Ramo.
Uh and in the end, you know, this could
be long drawn out. It could be painful.
It could go to extra time and uh and to
penalties, but I I don't think the ECB
can win this with uh premature
tightening and such a defensive
strategy.
>> The parallels are extraordinary. They
really are. Kit, thank you, sir. We
appreciate it. You're a good spot. Kit
Juks there of Sochen. In Kit's note, in
the last 24 hours, Arsenal played
football like the ECB are set to run
monetary policy. 25% possession on
Saturday. 25 basis point rate high
coming in a week's time apparently.
>> Yeah. Defensive strategy that was
ultimately doomed. And uh ultimately, I
will say if the US is like PSG, then
we're at least not riding the day after.
Though there is a sense right now uh
that maybe the ECB is in a pretty
negative position and the US is sort of
in a good spot. His point though, if the
Fed doesn't hike soon enough, it could
actually have a problem on its hands
that could potentially lead them to them
raising rates too quickly and cause a
recession.
>> I'm surprised at the ECB. I really am
because they've made this mistake
before. They made this mistake once then
twice under tre. And it's interesting to
me that they're so keen on making it
again.
>> If they have a desire to avoid that
mistake, at what point do they become a
dualmandate central bank? If they truly
are a single mandate central bank, they
will be doomed to make this mistake in
any kind of supply side shock. And
ultimately, that is what they're facing
right now.
>> And that's the new era. That's the new
era we've been in ever since the
pandemic. Equity futures this morning
pulling back by not even two ten of 1%
on the S&P 500. So much to cover in a
world of tech. We've got an $80 billion
equity raise over at Alphabet Anthropic
moving forward with an IPO potentially
as soon [music] as the next several
months. And then you've got stocks like
HPE absolutely flagged in the
pre-market. Up next we'll catch up with
Evan Brown of UPS. Monu of PSP Growth,
Dan Stroven of [music] Goldman Sachs,
Neil Data of Renmack. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance just around the
corner.
This economy really is on fire. Growth
is very solid for the foreseeable
future.
>> It's actually one of the healthiest
[music] labor markets I've seen in
decades.
>> We've underestimated how less rate
sensitive we are.
>> The Fed is really well positioned here.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. And for our
audience worldwide, the second down of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. An 8-day
winning run on the S&P 500. The longest
daily [music] winning streak of the year
so far. This morning we're down by 210
of 1% on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ,
we're down.1. Tech stocks in focus. One
stock in focus, Alphabet. An $80 billion
equity capital [music] raise. Burkshire
Haway getting in on the act. Alphabet
down 2% of the pre-market
>> which is nothing when you take a look at
the nearly 120% gain over the past 12
months [music] for these particular
shares. This would be one of the biggest
capital raises ever in the equity
[music] markets following the $75
billion SpaceX uh money raise that is
expected at any time with their nearly
$2 trillion IPO and its ahead of and you
pointed this out anthropic potentially
as well as open AI. What does it say
about where we are in markets and that I
think is increasingly what we're hearing
from strategists. It means that the
window is open and you need to climb
through that window as quickly as you
can before [music] it slams shut. Does
it have any signs of slamming shut? Not
yet. But why not get in while the
getting is good?
>> But the character of the US equity
market is changing. [music] It's
changing. We've gone from capital
returns in this dominant waiting on the
S&P 500 to capex intensity [music]
rising. We've gone from shrinkage to
supply in the equity market. And not
just the issuance from Alphabet, but
also the IPOs lined up for the next 12
months. Things are [music] changing and
they're changing fast.
>> Ted Mortonson said the reason why
they're tapping the stock market is
because frankly it's a better option for
them. They're getting too big to raise
it just in the debt markets. And even
though the debt markets are wide [music]
open and boy are they when you talk to
anybody they are starting to put a
little bit more constraints. People are
looking for different security or
secured assets. They're having a shorter
time frame [music] maybe 5 years rather
than 10 or 30 years. Equity is a
perpetuity type of instrument. So
they're saying this is the time to do
it. When does it pay off? Can you hedge
all of these questions that are
existential? The answer is you can't
think about it. You just do what Chris
Veron does. The less you know and you
buy. Well, Alphabet saying this is an
expansionary moment and [music] right
now what they are doing in terms of AI
solutions services from enterprise to
consumers in their statement they're at
[music] levels that are exceeding the
company's available supply. Bloomberg
Intelligence is now saying we're looking
at $300 billion in capex [music]
next year. So this train that continues
at least for another year and a half.
Think about that quote from the CEO a
few summers ago. The biggest [music]
risk here is underinvesting, not
overinvesting. That was a CEO
confronting what he believed [music] was
existential risk. And he's piling into
this by raising more money. $60 billion
raised in the debt market worldwide in 4
months. That only just wrapped up and
now going into the equity market for
another 80 billion. And there's [music]
still more appetite for the next 12
months and the 12 months after that and
so on and so forth. When you look at the
trillions [music] of dollars that are
probably going to be necessary over the
next couple of years to finance the
buildout that people are talking about,
they're talking about uh data supplies,
they're talking about [music] uh TPUs,
GPUs, the production of it, the uh staff
to really recreate all of the software,
the education to go into all of the
companies and figure out exactly how to
do this, the energy production and all
of the assets. It is incredibly capital
intensive. [music] Now we have to say
what is going to be the ramification for
the economy. Is this going to create
efficiencies? Is this going to be
inflationary? We're talking to Socks
saying that it is going to be
inflationary and if so, who's going to
pay the bill? Will there be failures in
terms of other companies or ultimately
do [music] prices just keep rising at
pace leaving a problem for the debt
market?
>> Well, I think we framed this a few times
in a way that I think Ted Morrison's
thinking about [music] things anyway.
You've got all these companies, some of
the richest on the planet by the way,
tapping the debt market, tapping the
equity [music] market, raising capital,
and then pushing it into a supply
constrained economy. one that has seen
negative supply shocks across goods,
labor, energy, [music] and everybody's
talking about bottlenecks. Well, they're
not backing away, are they? With higher
prices, they're going in for even more
and spending even more. And you'd have
to believe that comes with some
inflation. How much inflation we get in
the next 12 months? I don't know. But
certainly some inflation. And Ted was
talking about that being a risk to the
bond market. Inflation being one and
crowding out being two. [music] And
that's something we got to think about
as well. If companies need to completely
recreate [music] their entire
infrastructure, they're going to have to
raise prices or else they're going to
have to accept much smaller margins.
Who's going to pay those higher prices?
>> Alphabet this morning down just 2% which
is remarkable. Just speaks to the amount
of demand out there [music] in this
equity market still. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Evan Brown of
UBS as Anthropic takes [music] steps to
go public. We'll speak to Mugh of PSP
Growth as Alphabet looks to raise $80
billion and Neil Data of Renmack as the
Fed prepares to drop its easing bus. We
begin this hour as some of the world's
biggest tech companies are preparing to
tap the equity market. Evan Brown of UBS
Asset Management writing, "There's
growing need for funding among the AI
giants and we can see there's no
shortage of interest in investors to
participate in the theme." Evan joins us
now for more. Evan, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Can you sit this out?
>> I think uh you have to be invested. I
mean, ultimately, I think we're still
early stages in in this AI buildout.
adoption is is relatively low for
consumers and businesses compared to
where we think it can get. Um, at the
same time, you don't want to forget the
other areas of the market. I think it's
encouraging that as as concentrated as
the market has been, um, we're starting
to see other areas like software rebound
and and the debate, the discussion is
becoming a little bit more nuanced on
that theme. When you have a company like
Alphabet, you don't have to speak to
them specifically, but just for example,
just so we can navigate this
conversation without you getting in
trouble. When you have a company like
Alphabet choosing to tap the equity
market after aggressively going through
the debt market in the last few months,
what does that tell you about
valuations, if anything? Well, I think
it just it just speaks it the the sheer
uh you know demand for uh for funding of
these mag seven companies uh that
they're tapping the de the debt market
and the equity market and uh really
transforming from capital light to
capital intensive shows you [snorts]
just you know what an imbalance there is
in the supply and demand for for
compute. Uh but I think you know the
market is showing you that either in
debt or in equity it's willing to
finance it.
The less nice way of saying this is are
they getting at the top? I mean
ultimately Alphabet's really good at
timing the market. They always have been
in the debt space. Is this essentially
them saying this is a small window
before valuations plunge?
>> I don't know if that's the case. I mean
I think there is something strategic in
in the sense that we are going to get
some of these big IPOs coming soon. And
so uh if you're a major public company
maybe get in there and raise capital a
little bit more beforehand. Um but look,
this is uh you know, these are some of
the most impressive companies we've seen
uh in in in the market, these Max 7
companies and and they've shown an
ability to uh to perform and I I you
know, I wouldn't bet against them.
>> Can equity valuations keep climbing if
you don't have participation from the
bond market if you don't have yields
that are relatively calm and there uh
you know, continues to be? Yes,
inflation fears but mostly muted ones.
>> Yeah. And what's interesting is I think
it's less about valuations right now and
more about people betting on on
earnings. So valuations themselves don't
look extraordinarily high relative to
where we've been over the over the last
few years. Um but part of that is
because people have such optimistic
views on where earnings are are going to
be. And so the question is you know will
this AI buildout will it uh you know
will the ROI really justify um what what
people are projecting on earnings? And I
think that uh you know that remains to
be seen but at this point it's hard to
fight what we've seen in terms of Q1
earnings uh and and the guidance is just
really you know strong economy strong
outlook for these companies.
>> A lot of people were kind of shocked
about Alphabet. Were you shocked that
they came out with this massive
announcement also right before Anthropic
and Open Aby? You know, I I'm not
shocked by any of the big numbers that
we're seeing thrown around in terms of
of financing these days when we think
about the capex needs that a lot of
these companies are are um uh are are
committing to. So, um yeah, I I I'm I'm
not surprised by it.
>> We just had another positive earnings
shock, you know, not a negative one, but
a positive one in HPE. Some of these
single name stock stories, what are
analysts finding so difficult coming
into this year? Because this is highly
unusual to see beats this large. Usually
analysts are accused of being overly
optimistic, right? Usually and late.
They never cut their targets, their
outlook in time. What's changed this
year? What's going on right now with
these massive beats that we're seeing
across single names?
>> I think what we're seeing is that this
uh AI trade and all the bottlenecks in
between and and how it's that's driving
up pricing for key components of the of
the buildout uh is something we've never
seen before, bottom line. and and so uh
you know I think analysts are are you
know underestimating the the sheer
demand that we're seeing for different
components of the value chain and uh you
know I don't know that we're going to
see that in perpetuity. We've had an
extraordinary Q1 earning season but uh
>> do you think we're priced for that in
perpetuity?
>> I I I don't think the market right now
is priced for that in perpetuity. I
think the market is, you know, upgrading
its earning cycle, uh, the the earnings
projections, but but not to an extreme
degree.
>> Not to beat a dead horse, but you start
thinking, what are the upside surprises
in these earnings? And they come in
tandem with upside revisions to capex
plans from some of the hyperscalers and
capex plans globally because they're
paying higher input costs. Essentially,
this is an inflation story. I know that
I keep harping on this, but ultimately
things are costing more. So the people
who are on the receiving end of that are
seeing upside surprises commensurate
with how much prices are increasing.
Right? So you look at this and you start
thinking why does that not trickle into
the rest of the market? At what point is
this inflation that could be contained
in this story and at what point does it
really affect your perception of the
bond market?
>> No, I think it's it's a you know the the
big debate was AI is it going to be
disinflationary or is it going to be
inflationary? And at least right now it
is inflationary to your point you know
between the uh uh the rising input costs
that we're seeing between electricity
prices between software prices surging
and uh and I think that is why you're
seeing a bond market that flipped from
cuts to to the potential for hikes. It's
not just what's happening in Iran and
oil prices. Uh we've seen oil prices
come down quite a bit over the last few
weeks and and we're still pricing in
some probability of hikes. I think a lot
of that is just the strength of
underlying demand in the economy, strong
nominal GDP and a big part of that is
the AI capex.
>> Another way of asking a question are
bottlenecks in tech a reason to push the
10 yield closer to 5%.
>> I mean I think it's one part of the
story of you know broader parts of the
story. One other one is the labor market
which we have seen stabilize. uh you
know one other part is just the
resilience of consumption which we have
seen uh you know fed by the the stimulus
that we've gotten tax refunds and the
like. So you put all of these things
together and that speaks to an economy
that's uh you know doing much better
than people expected.
>> You alluded to it. Even if we resolve
the situation in the Middle East, is
there still an argument for high yields
and not lower ones?
>> I think so. Yes. I I I mean and I think
we're the the fact that you haven't
you've priced out some some tightening
but you haven't priced out the
tightening as we've seen uh oil prices
come down of late and if even if you
know the season the straight of hormuz
opens up tomorrow I think the I think
the market will still be pricing in some
probability of a hike as opposed to a
cut because we're seeing underlying
strength in the economy.
>> Evan, it's good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Thank you buddy. Evan Brown
there of UBS Asset Management. We
certainly saw that in the data just
yesterday in the ISM.
>> Yeah. Outperforming once again uh in
terms of just manufacturing prices paid
continuing in expansionary territory.
Employment still in contractionary
in contractionary territory going
forward. It's going to be really
interesting. If the Fed were to hike
rates, would it matter? Would it matter
to these valuations increasingly here?
Not really.
>> What problem does it solve? Just hammers
housing, right? Just hammers the part of
the economy that's not doing well at the
moment anyway. Although you could argue
if they raise rates that could
potentially tame the long end. I mean at
some point it might not be an eitheror
type of scenario if there truly is this
type of inflationary pressure.
>> Tens right now down three basis points
442. Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhira has more. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi John. Dollar earning dollar general
earnings just in and shares are up 3% in
the pre-market. The discount retailer
[music]
reporting first quarter earnings that
beat estimates. The company reiterating
plans to open about 450 new stores
[music]
in the US this fiscal year.
Prominent short seller Andrew Left has
been found guilty of securities fraud.
The Citron [music] Research founder was
convicted on 13 of 17 counts and could
face more than 20 years in prison.
[music] Sentencing is set for August.
And Nvidia CEO continuing his tour. He
says he pays his workers [music] as much
as possible as questions grow over who
benefits from the AI boom. He added he
does not plan to replace them with AI.
Weighing [music] dismissing those
concerns as nonsense, saying AI will
only boost revenue, profits, and GDP
growth. That's your [music] Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you for the
update. More from Yahara in 30 minutes
time. Up next on a program skyrocketing
AI [music]
demand.
>> Everyone on the planet will have some
interaction with AI. Could I see this
demand continuing much longer than
people have ever seen historically? That
I do believe.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Mchu of PSP
Growth live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Equity futures pulling back from
all-time highs on the S&P 500. for the
[music] S&P on an 8day winning run. The
longest winning streak on a daily basis
of the year so far. Equity futures
[music] down by 0.2 on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ, down by 0.1. Check out Alphabet.
We're talking about an $80 billion
equity capital [music] raise. The stock
is down just 2.5% in the pre-market. The
earnings have been stellar. How [music]
many times have you heard that over the
last month? Check out HPE. Crushing
estimates. that stock up in the
pre-market by a solid an emphatic 25%.
>> I mean, it just sort of mindboggling
when you take a look some of the
earnings beats. 31% in the fiscal year
ended uh ending in October. That's a
projection versus an expectation of 19%.
I mean, we're talking about uh a 12
percentage point gap between what they
actually came out with and what was
projected. This is one of the largest
makers of computing equipment. They have
insatiable demand right now and you are
seeing that in the pro in the
projections out two years.
>> This is the biggest positive earning
shock I think I've ever seen across
single names and and maybe the index
level as well outside of recoveries. I
think you got to go back decades to see
[music] anything like this on the
earnings front.
>> Yeah, you noted that analysts tend to be
overbold. Nobody has a sell rating.
They're not bullish enough because we
cannot wrap our heads around how quickly
this is expanding.
>> The stock is up at a pre-market by 25%
under Savylvanas this morning.
skyrocketing AI demand.
>> Everyone on the planet will have some
interaction with AI. If you think about
world GDP, $130 trillion, knowledge
work, white collar work being maybe a
$30 trillion market.
>> That is a large market which today is
largely undertapped. Could I see this
demand continuing much longer than
people have ever seen historically? That
I do believe.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Alphabets raising $80 billion through a
massive equity deal [music] as Anthropic
submits paperwork for its confidential
IPO filing ahead of rival OpenAI. Mandy
Singh of Bloomberg Intelligence joins us
now for more. Mandy, welcome to the
program. The numbers are huge. What
signal do you take from the timing and
the size of that equity capital raise
from Alphabet?
>> I mean, the size isn't that big of a
deal given, you know, Alphabet's market
cap. It's more the signal here which is
uh to me you know uh what Google is
suggesting is they won't be doing any
buybacks anymore at least for the time
being uh they are issuing equity because
they feel the opportunity is huge and
they want to pretty much frontr run
these IPOs uh in the sense their capex
numbers are going to be much bigger than
what consensus has right now which is
around 250 billion. We think it'll
probably be 300 billion for next year in
2027. And they want to lock in as much
compute as they can in terms of getting
that capacity from TSMC where Nvidia is
paying you know $120 billion in
prepayments. Remember Alphabet is not
just a model provider. They're also uh
the biggest chip maker after Nvidia and
that's where they have a much bigger
opportunity than the anthropic and open
AIS of the world. Mandepid, you
mentioned getting ahead of the IPOs. Are
there any big public companies, maybe
Microsoft Meta thinking about doing the
same thing?
>> I don't think so. Simply because they
Microsoft and Meta are reliant on Nvidia
to give them the GPUs, you know, for
their data centers. In the case of
Alphabet, that's the unique value
proposition they have is they don't have
to rely on Nvidia. Even though they buy
Nvidia chips, but it's more for their
cloud business. And in this case, I
think the market won't like it if
Microsoft and Meta were to do the same
simply because of the drag on uh free
cash flow and and you know the earnings
uh that you will see with more uh stock
issuance. So from that perspective I
think Alphabet's uh situation is unique
here and they are trying to take
advantage of of their uh uh market cap
as well as the position they have you
know across the board when it comes to
the different categories.
>> They're certainly doing that. Mandep
appreciate the time. What an afternoon
yesterday. Mandep Singh there of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Mchugh of PSP
growth writing the following. Bergkshire
is effectively putting a stamp of
approval on the idea that AI is not just
market hype but a durable infrastructure
shift worth funding at scale. Mame's in
the studio. Mame. Good morning. Good to
see you.
>> Good morning. Good to see you.
>> It's great to see you in person. Let's
talk about the supply. Tons of it. Is it
going to be met with a lot of demand? I
think demand is showing no signs of
slowing down and we're talking about
building out essentially the real
world's new electricity grids of AI,
right? So, everyone's piling on.
Everyone wants um to grab as much as
they can. This is almost like a war on
oil. That's like the new compute. So, I
don't see demand slowing down at all.
>> I asked this question earlier on this
morning. How much runway do you think
there is here? People are wondering what
innings we're in. You know that cliche
kind of question on Wall Street. How
much runway do you think there is here?
>> I think there's still early innings. Um
I do think the questions will start to
be asked in terms of when is the payback
on this capex because these numbers are
staggering. I think um Alphabet right
the reason they're raising this much
equity is their capex spend this year is
gonna be$200 billion dollars and of the
max seven together I think we're talking
600 700 billion maybe even more
depending on what week you ask it is and
so far no one seems to be asking uh
where's that return going to come from
um who is going to fund it but I think
we will soon but the fact that people
are not asking that question yet shows
me that we're still in the early innings
of AI and this is just a land grab
>> demand is outstripping supply again and
again and again with HPE. We saw that as
well that really this is an issue of
just supply not being able to keep up.
How much pricing power is there? I mean,
can they just keep raising prices to the
moon for some of these uh parts that are
in the choke points that essentially are
necessary for the buildout?
>> It sure seems that way, doesn't it? Um I
I think you touch on an interesting
point which is where is the choke point?
Uh, and I do think if you look at sort
of the core suppliers, GPUs, memory,
yes, like they're strictly at where the
bottleneck is and that makes sense and I
think they probably will command pricing
power for quite a bit. But where I start
maybe start to worry in the market is if
the rally becomes broader. Um, I could
see a world where there's so much um
frenzy around AI that anything that even
touches the supply chain gets uh seen as
a AI beneficiary. And I think that's
when you get into trouble is I don't
know if this is a good example but data
center cooling right is is marginally
touching the space but also obviously
very different than memory. I do think
for the core spaces of memory and GPU
you probably see that rally go for quite
a bit longer.
>> Yeah. Like when a shoe company becomes
an AI company then potentially that
raises some concerns. I just wonder, you
know, how much companies have to show
return on investment going forward to
keep investing at the pace that they are
to rebuild their entire infrastructure
or is that not necessary yet?
>> Yeah, and I think in some ways, right,
we can talk about the anthropic IPO in a
little bit. Um, seeing anthropics
numbers could be interesting on this
front. Um, well, first of all, we at
PSP, uh, we think about this a lot. We
actually hosted an event a month ago
where we gathered Fortune 500 CEOs and
AI entrepreneurs together in one room
and be like, what is actually valuable
to being built? like when do you see ROI
or is it just build build and it was
probably some interesting insights there
but back to anthropic the interesting
thing we could see from them is from the
very beginning the narrative has been
about enterprise adoption it's not just
about having the best model is about
having how do we drive actual
productivity in customers and they've
done well as a result but seeing their
numbers hopefully we will soon will show
that if retention is good for if we're
continue to see spend increase among the
largest corporate spenders then maybe AI
skeptics ICS um could be a little wrong
in terms of how far we we are in the AI
adoption curve after all.
>> Let's talk about the anthropic IPO. You
say it's going to be not just a massive
deal in terms of being first for open
AI, but also along the entire AI stack.
What are these smaller AI companies
going to be looking for?
>> Yeah, I think everyone will be watching
them. Um it's going to affect the whole
AI stack because essentially Anthropic
is the first AI native company to go
public and they're going public at a
trillion dollar valuation. And there's
this belief in the market that AI is
going to be so much bigger than
traditional software. So if traditional
software is a trillion market globally,
AI could be 10 times that, 20 times
that, I've heard 50 times like 50 times
as the highest I've heard in terms of
how much bigger AI will be um than
traditional software. So if you're
thinking there's a market that creates
$50 trillion of new market cap,
obviously that has implications um up
across the stack. And if you look at any
of the listings around top AI companies,
I think Bloomberg has one that's u, you
know, top 24 AI companies to watch. You
can look at the Forbes AI50 as a Roth
proxy for what the market thinks is like
the top tier AI companies. All of them
are valued at at least 1 billion or
more, which means investors think
they're going to be tens of billions.
They're going to be a trillion dollars.
And it's every part of the stack. It's
not just the models like open AI or
anthropic. Um, you have infrastruct AI
infrastructure companies. So this is
like base 10 fell together. You have um
application layer companies. So this is
like synthesia. This is like decagon um
a bridge Harvey. All these companies
sitting at billions of dollars of
valuations is going to be looking at
anthropic to see if the public markets
will truly view AI as a different crop
of companies.
>> M it's good to see you. Thanks for being
here. Thank you. M of PSP growth.
Remember when a billion used to mean
something?
>> Yeah. [music] Billion billion there.
Trillion here. Trillion there. So soon
you've got real money.
>> It's difficult to internalize the size
of some of this. Coming up, Dan Stro and
Goldman Sachs on the two-sided risk
facing crude prices. Plus, Danny is
looking to mouth out. That stock
apparently could be a $1 trillion name.
[laughter]
Equities pulling back by 0.2% on the
[music] S&P 500. Just a small dip, a
small pullback from all-time highs on
the S&P 500. 8day winning streak. Can we
make it day nine? Only a small drift
lower on the NASDAQ. We're down by not
even a tenth of 1%. That's a store in
the equity market. 2 hours away from the
cash open. The open and bound just
around the corner. Let's get you some
single names, some morning [music]
movers. Danny Burgerer has more. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. Some big moves this morning
despite an overall down market. HPE up
26% this morning in earnings that blew
everybody out of the water for this the
current quarter. Its projections which
beat Wall Street expectations. even gave
a glimpse into early next year, which is
rare for this company. You've seen the
sell side try to scramble to keep up.
We've seen price target raise after
price target raise. It makes networking
equipment for AI data center. So, you
can imagine why that's been in demand.
Another AI related story. Marll also
surging in today's trade. Shares are up
23%. Uh Jzen Hong is at a conference, a
tech conference in Taipei. Taipei brings
the CEO on stage with him and says,
"Hey, Marll, this is the next trillion
dollar company." That's [music] quite
the endorsement. They make networking
equipment for that's necessary for AI.
Uh so, uh or rather chips that allow
different AI components to talk to each
other. And Jensen Hong [music] calling
out those chips as especially being in
high demand. Uh finally, decidedly not
AI, it is Dollar General also out with
solid earnings. The company beating
expectation, raising its forecast. the
company saying, "Look, our our value
proposition is paying off and that's why
we're seeing shares up four and a half%
in the pre-market." John
>> Danny, thank you. [music] Appreciate the
update. Danny Burger there with some
single names this morning. On our radar,
Alphabet looking to raise $80 billion to
fuel massive AI spending plans. The
money expected to come through a package
of equity offerings, including a $10
billion investment from Burkshire
Hathaway. [music] Elsewhere, Anthropic
confidentially filing for an IPO,
putting it ahead of OpenAI in the race
to go public. The move adding to growing
momentum as both companies scramble for
the capital needed to secure chips and
data [music] centers. And finally, the
president tearing into the Israeli prime
minister. According to Axios, Trump
calling Netanyahu crazy as Israeli
actions in Lebanon put Iran peace talks
[music] at a standstill.
>> So this is some of the scuttlebutt
behind the dueling messages that we
heard. President Trump coming out and
saying [music]
that there seemed to be some sort of
ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu talking about how nothing has
changed in their ultimate goal. Uh a
real question about what is going to be
intertwined with some sort of ceasefire
with Iran and who's agreeing to what
again? Who's negotiating with who? Who's
agreeing to what? Where are we? Which is
the reason why this is really fun. I
mean, when John brings up the ghost
call, the phantom call when it comes to
China, at times it does feel like the
president is almost negotiating with
himself, just negotiating public to send
signals to the regime. I think the Wall
Street Journal editorial board really
nails it this morning. Iran's regime
sees us as one war and it's been testing
Trump on all fronts. So testing him in
the straight of Hermoose, will you hang
on to the ceasefire even if we're
sending your troops drones? Testing him
in terms of they see Lebanon and
Hezbollah as part of this. So testing
him there when it comes to Israel. Even
as Iran is saying we are no longer
talking to you, the president is still
clinging to the ceasefire. And you can
see he does not want escalation. He's
committed to deescalation and the market
picked up on that a while ago and
arguably maybe that's kept prices in the
futures market some point along the
curve more behaved than it otherwise
would have been but ultimately I don't
think you can overstate the importance
of the draw down in inventories that
that's been the real cushion here that's
cushioned this crude market and things
would have been a whole lot worse how
sustainable that is get a lot of push
back to that question when we ask it
when it becomes a major problem you'll
know when you know and when you know
it's going to be a big number on the
screen
>> and a lot of people are saying that
you're going to know in the next couple
of weeks cuz we're heading into driving
season. That's what we heard from Mike
Worth of Chevron when he said we're
going to hit tank bottoms. You could
feel shortages even here in the United
States. At a certain point, you can't
just keep jaw boning a physicality in
this world. And that essentially is the
point that we're ra raising. This isn't
fun. It's not funny. But a lot of people
are looking at this and trying to say
when do we have to care? Not yet. and
they keep putting it off expecting that
there will be some sort of resolution
even as this ends up being a physical
problem even if it's resolved today.
>> Tyler Kendall's in Washington. She joins
us now for more. Tyler, welcome to the
program. I remember when the straight
was reopening on April 17th and here we
are in June. Where are we now?
>> Well, John, at this point it doesn't
appear that we're any closer to that
deal to reopen it. Though we know that
the White House would like that to be
prioritized in any memorandum of
understanding. President Trump came out
yesterday and said that he was
optimistic towards a deal. He said that
we are now seeing a quote rapid pace in
terms of the negotiations, but Iranian
state media so far has really put out
that there are still some really big
sticking points, including when it comes
to this waterway. We heard earlier this
week Iranian state media saying that
Iran would have the quote exclusive
authority to operate the strait,
something that is considered to be a
non-starter by the US. There has been
efforts by the US, as you well know, to
help get the oil flowing through,
including Bloomberg News confirming that
the US Sentcom is providing information
to certain vessels to help them transit
through, but we're not going to see that
military deployment of assets to
actually physically escort tankers. I
can say that satellite imagery analyzed
by Bloomberg News earlier this week did
indicate that about a quarter of the
tankers that were backlogged have made
their way through, but it has been at a
trickle and is still of course very far
below those pre-war levels. John, we'll
have to see where this ultimately goes
from here because we know that the US
isn't going to lift up that naval
blockade, give up that leverage in these
conversations in order to strike a deal.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. Crude
still elevated. Brenton 94, WTI around
91. We caught up with the Chevron CEO
recently, Mike Worth telling us and
warning there may be more risk to come.
>> June and July are going to be critical
months and uh you can see the trajectory
of these inventories in the data and
it's it's concerning about the time that
the new supplies reach the market demand
may have turned down and the price
cycles down. Dan Stroven of Goldman
Sachs writing the following. We see
significant upside price risk from
potentially more persistent Middle East
supply losses but also meaningful price
downside from weaker demand. Dan joins
us now for more. Dan, good morning.
>> We'll get into the sequencing in a
moment. I just want to start with the
risk of this inventory running out of
oxygen. How close are we to that
becoming a problem?
>> Yeah, so we are the most focused on
tightness in the product markets rather
than the crude market, in particular the
diesel market. Uh and if we were to
continue to draw at the recent pace in
terms of OECD commercial diesel stocks,
we would hit an estimated critical
inventory threshold of 20 days of demand
covered uh by by August.
>> By August. In practice, we're not going
to hit it because higher prices would
reduce demand.
>> But you say August and I'm thinking,
okay, then could this go on for a bit
longer this back and forth? Can we get
through another month of this these
negotiations that go nowhere? the lower
entries go, the higher the fair value of
oil prices should be. But the honest
answer is we don't really have good
historical evidence of what it means to
go to tank tank bottom. So it's an
empirical discovery process that the
economy and markets may have to go
through if the straight were to remain
closed.
>> Where is the demand destruction going to
come from? Because it hasn't come from
the developed economies in any way and
frankly politicians have been
incentivizing people to continue with
their habits.
>> Yeah. So three areas of uh surprising
and large demand weakness uh one
petrochemical feed stocks two global jet
fuel demand and three gasoline demand
especially in China but also in several
Western European countries. In China we
estimate that as of April gasoline
volume sales were down just over 20%
year-over-year. China has reduced its
imports of crude by 40% year-over-year.
That's really I think a key reason why
crude prices are are not higher. So do
you think that people are overstating
the potential for a supply shock in the
next couple of weeks even should the
straight of Hermu continue to be closed?
>> I think the longer the straits remains
closed the more inventories roll down
the higher oil prices should go. Um the
exact sort of tipping point is is
uncertain. We are the most focused on
the diesel market where where our models
point to to August as a potential
potential inflection point.
>> Even in the United States it's August
for diesel.
>> Yes. So if you look at US weekly uh
petroleum statistics and the beauty
about the US data is we can track
everything weekly in real time. If you
look at the last eight weeks it's the
largest draws in US oil stocks in
history. Uh diesel stocks in the US are
at the lowest level since 2003. I think
US uh refiners have helped to fill in
the shortfall of refined products in the
east and in Europe. And as long as trade
is free the tightness will be felt uh
you know very much in the US too. How
much do you see actually getting through
the straight of moose right now? We've
had reporting that Adno is getting
product out. The Japanese prime minister
had a call yesterday with the Iranians.
They got 15 ships out. Are you seeing
more get through because individual
nations are striking their own deals
with the regime?
>> So, we think that about 10 to 15% of
normal oil volumes are coming through
two to three million barrels per day.
But it's a challenging data problem as
ships turn their uh their satellites
data data off. So we are also tracking
arrivals of oil. We're tracking
inventories data uh 10 to 15% of normal.
But it's a challenging data data
measurement issue.
>> If the street form were to open today,
how much would oil prices go down
because of the demand destruction that
we already see in certain places.
>> I think the risk premium at this point
has come off quite a bit along with uh
positioning. I would expect that you
know if the trade reopens fully and on a
sustained basis that the risk premium
comes down somewhat further. But I think
oil prices will stay high. We have
brands at 19 the fourth quarter just
because inventory levels are very very
low. Much most of the risk stream at
this point has come off.
>> So wouldn't you say that the upside risk
is substantially greater than any kind
of downside risk going forward and that
ultimately people are still on the low
end of the pricing curve both now as
well as in December.
>> Yeah, we see the the risk as two sided
but skewed to the upside on net. If the
demand weakness we're seeing in gasoline
markets in China and Western Europe were
sustained uh we would predict brand at
80 by year end but in practice I expect
that uh that demands weakness should
unwind once uh you know conditions
conditions normalize on that still
upside from a more persistent home
supply. Our expo experience with this
story of the last three months, terrific
engagement in the first month, the
second month things started to fade and
the third month no one even wants to
talk about it. Can you describe the arc
of your conversations with clients? How
engaged are they still with what is
taking place in the Middle East?
>> Clients are tired. Uh it's a challenging
trading trading environment with
headlines moving prices up and down. Um
so yeah I I I think positioning uh in in
uh you know in oil markets is is
significantly more limited than at the
start of the
>> have they stopped engaging in the market
because of that. Have you seen certain
pockets of this market in commodities
where liquidity start to drive dry up
because people aren't engaging in the
way they were before? traders are
telling me that liquidity especially in
the refined product markets is is pretty
poor at the moment and I think many uh
corporate clients, investor clients have
already set up the hedges they they
wanted to to implement uh and many of
them are in a wait and see game.
>> So when you see liquidity dry dry up how
much signal can I take from the paper
market from futures right now?
>> Yeah. Um somewhat less than in normal
times where where liquidity is higher
for sure. So that's why you need to
complement the price information with
looking at stocks, uh, imports, exports,
uh, anecdotes from from clients on the
ground. All of these are are necessary
to get a sense of what's going on.
>> Dan, I appreciate it. Thank you, sir.
Thank you. I think everyone's exhausted
by this story, including Dan himself,
I'm sure, Dan Stroven, of Goldman Sachs.
>> Yeah. But the point that you were making
at the end was fascinating to me because
ultimately it indicates you can't really
get comfort from the long end of the oil
curve right now if it has less
information than it normally does. and
Mike Worth of Chevron saying look at it
>> probably he doesn't look at it best case
for the consumer
>> right in his range talks about that as
being the best case and the potential
bad cases being to the moon I it just
where is the downside surprise and how
great could that be potential to the
upside that seems not unlimited but
problematic
>> skewed asymmetrically to the upside yeah
that's that's the way
>> I think that's where you were going your
mind [laughter] Brammo right now
>> 94 let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahara has more. Hi Yhara.
>> Hi John. SpaceX will reserve up to 5% of
shares [music] in its upcoming IPO for
certain employees along with friends and
family of executives. The company has
[music] already disclosed that
participants on its so-called friends
and family list will not be subject to a
lockup restriction.
NBA star Stephven Curry signing a
10-year endorsement deal with Chinese
apparel brand [music]
Lee Ming. The agreement includes
basketball products, lifestyle wear, and
a full golf line. The four-time champion
ended his longtime partnership with
Under Armour back in November.
And a 24-hour strike by some London
Underground drivers started today,
causing major disruptions around the
city. Talks between the union walked out
over a dispute over plans to introduce a
voluntary 4-day working week. A second
strike [music] is planned for Thursday.
Dr. Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhira, thank you. Thank you for the
update. More from Yahihara in about
[music] 30 minutes time. Up next on a
program higher for longer.
>> This economy really is on fire. If there
is a rate hike cycle beginning because
of these factors that we both have a low
unemployment rate and at the same time
we also have pressure on inflation, then
all those things would certainly [music]
argue for the risk to the upside.
>> Neil Data Ran Mack joins us next live
from New York. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
Things are pretty quiet [music] at the
index level this morning. We're down by
0.2% on the S&P 500. Down by not even.1
on the NASDAQ. Things are very noisy at
the single name level. Check out
Alphabet. Down by 2%. Not a big move,
but they're making major moves. an $80
billion equity [music] capital raise to
build out the big AI pushover at that
company and other companies are
absolutely raking it in. HPE in the
pre-market. The stock is absolutely
flying. It's up [music] by 26%. Revenue
will increase 31% in the fiscal year
ending in October. According to them,
analysts were looking for growth
expectations of something closer [music]
to 20%. So analysts were bullish. They
were nowhere near bullish enough.
>> Yeah, because demand just keeps out
stripping supply. The book report came
out from Peter Bookbar uh and I thought
that this headline of the email gives
you a sense of where people's minds are
at for the economic ramifications. This
is going to cost you talking about how
the data center is keeping the buildout
is keeping the US economy afloat. And
guess what? It's really expensive and
you are seeing that in the earnings.
You're seeing that in the capital raise
and you're seeing that in just how big
the beats are for the people who are in
the choke points of some of this
buildout.
>> So what does it mean for the bond
market? might sound like an odd
question, but I think it's a [music]
question we need to explore a little
bit. So, yields are close to 4% on twos,
tends to around 443. [music] Two
dimensions to the fixed income story off
the back of this conversation in tech.
One is inflation and the second [music]
is crowding out. It's a lot of debt
coming to the market to fund this big
push and to your [music] point, there's
a lot of price pressure building in that
sector as well.
>> At a certain point, right now, AI is
inflationary. How long is it going
[music] to be until it's
disinflationary? number one. And number
two, how much do you have to have a much
faster growing economy uh to support
some of this buildout without seeing
potentially constraints [music]
coming into play? And this is the reason
why Jim Karen over at Morgan Stanley put
out a note yesterday where he was saying
that [music] people need to get used to
a world with higher inflation, higher
benchmark rates, and higher growth. And
right now, people are trying to get
their heads around that after decades of
exactly the opposite.
>> Where does it leave this Federal Reserve
under surveillance this morning? Higher
for longer.
This economy really is on fire in the
sense that we both have strong growth
and we also have upward pressures on
inflation. If there is a rate hike cycle
beginning because of these factors that
we both have a low unemployment rate and
at the same time we also have upward
pressure on inflation then all those
things would certainly argue for the
risk to the upside name that rates are
going to stay higher for longer.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Investors awaiting a slew of jobs data
this week likely to confirm expectations
that the Fed will drop its easing bias.
Neil Dun of Runac warning the Fed is
focusing on the wrong side of its dual
mandate writing the more relevant issue
right now is how weak income growth is.
Neil joins us now for more. Neil,
welcome to the program. I'm guessing
you're pushing back against the idea
this economy is on fire.
>> Well, I think certainly to your point
earlier, I mean parts of the economy are
on fire. Uh you know, we've seen rapid
growth in um information processing
equipment and software. Um but I think
you know there's a disconnect in terms
of uh strong nominal GDP growth uh on
the one hand and very weak uh wage and
salary growth on the other. Um so you
know we'll see how that reconciles. Uh
but generally speaking I think you know
incomes labor markets are the more
stable measure of activity. Uh and so I
tend to put more weight on that.
>> So Neil why do you think the Fed at
least for now seems to be more
preoccupied with the other side of the
mandate?
Oh, sure. I mean, well, look, I mean,
uh, you know, inflation owns the Fed's
reaction function right now. Um, and,
you know, there's very little doubt at
this point that they're going to adopt
their, um, you know, their additional
adjustments, uh, language. Um, but I
think the reason why inflation's been
the focus is because we've been running
above target for a while. And uh when
you look at uh things like non-housing
services, they appear to be uh you know
flattening out or the progress has
stalled over the last uh you know 6
months or so. So um you know there's
only so many times you can say well this
is a function of this idiosyncratic
factor uh this upward pressure is a
function of tariffs and that'll go away.
um you know if everything is as
idiosyncratic then nothing is and so I
think that's uh the reason primarily why
why inflation kind of owns the uh the
Fed's reaction function at the moment
and of course um while income growth is
slowing uh you know the unemployment
rate isn't rising so you need to see
more of a uh you know cathartic crack in
the labor markets uh to kind of uh get
the Fed's attention
>> what does a cathartic crack look like
now
>> yeah if the unemployment rate starts
going up a couple tents every month uh
for several months in a row. Uh that'll
be uh something that'll get their
attention.
>> At this point, if you don't see that and
if you see incomes continuing to be
subdued, do you think that the next move
is going to be a hike or a cut? I mean,
do you think that the Fed could feasibly
cut rates to help people who are more
rate uh sensitive at a time when you're
seeing valuations run away? And it
doesn't seem to be that financial
markets see any kind of tightness in any
way.
>> Yeah. Well, I don't know that the Fed
can do anything about what's happening.
I mean, financial market conditions can
shift a abruptly for reasons totally
unrelated to the economic fundamentals
as we know. Um, I think what it
basically does is lock the Fed into
place. Uh, even when you think when you
talk to the people that are calling for
hikes on the street, right? What are
they saying? They're it's sort of like
stages of grief. Like it's almost like a
momentum trader with with with the sell
side, right? It's like, oh, they're
going to drop their easing bias, then
they're going to, you know, uh, talk
about balance of risks, then they're
going to hike. And how many times do you
think they'll hike? Oh, maybe once or
twice. Well, look, I have news. I don't
think the Fed will only go once if they
go. Okay. Uh, the Fed will probably go
75 to 100 basis points. They'll take
away all the insurance cuts that they
put in uh last year. So, going out there
and saying they might hike once at some
point in the second quarter of next
year, that'll be wrong. Okay. Uh so that
that's sort of what I would say. So to
me it's about distribution of of of sort
of this is a probabilities business,
right? Um either they're going 75 basis
points with with respect to hikes
or you know oil prices settle down uh we
kind of go back to where we were at the
end of February uh and and then the
markets start pricing in cuts again.
Maybe that's early next year or they do
nothing at all. You basically have an
extended hole. I think those are the
distribution of outcomes. And if I have
to pick, I would say the path of least
resistance is probably that they do
nothing. So I I would sort of lean
against the idea that they're going to
hike. Um and
>> they just need to say this though in a
sense to make sure they keep inflation
expectations under control.
>> Well, they're doing that, right? I mean,
they're they're basically they're
dropping their balance of risks uh or
sort of their, you know, additional
adjustments language. uh they're telling
you that they're prepared to move in
either direction should the economic uh
conditions justify it. Um but I really
have a tough time seeing them um hiking
if there's not much meaningful inflation
pressure coming out of the labor market.
>> If for them to hike, what would you need
to see in terms of you mentioned the
labor markets would labor markets would
need to reacelerate, meaning wage growth
would need to perk up.
>> No, very simple. We appreciate it, sir.
No one tart gets fired up about the
Federal Reserve, doesn't he?
>> He gets very fired up. And about Nicks,
I mean, if you look at these Nick Nick
tickets and the cost of them, you would
think the Fed needs to hike.
>> Ask him. Nick, are you uh Neil? Are you
going to the Knicks game?
>> Well, in classic K-shaped economy
fashion.
[laughter]
I I I will be. Uh I'm not going to um
I'm not going to MSG, unfortunately. Um
Okay. But I will be going.
>> Cut rights. Neil Data over Matt. Neil,
thank you. Neil wants cheaper tickets. I
don't think you get them by cutting
interest rates.
>> No, but it seems like he's going to go
anyway. [laughter] At least maybe not in
Madison Square Garden. I mean, what is
it? $75,000 people can resell their
tickets for.
>> It's ridiculous. Brema.
>> There's some that are too.
>> But then there's the debate. Do you sell
or do you not sell? If you're a diehard
fan and you've got, you know, you're a
diehard fan, I I guess you go.
>> I've spoken to dieh hard fans about
this.
>> They're holding on to the tickets.
>> They're a lot of them are holding on to
the tickets. They It's been decades of
just brutal torture. So,
>> it's someone else's money, so I don't
want to tell people what to do with
their money. I will say this, though. I
do appreciate when the stadium is filled
full of actual fans and not people who
just paid up ridiculous amounts of money
for the uh whatever the spectacle of the
moment is. And in this case, it's the
Knicks at MSG.
>> I feel like this is a perfect parallel
for some of the chip supply uh
shortages.
>> Make this work for us, Bremo,
>> because it's sort of like demand is
insatiable and supplies are limited. And
so, do you hold on to your supplies that
could potentially be productive or do
you sell potentially for a big profit in
the moment? But that money, what is it
worth versus the experience?
>> Okay, I think that kind of worked.
>> Thanks.
>> Appreciate it, Brao. [music] Thank you.
Up next, we'll get back on track. Monica
Desenso of JP Morgan, Colin Sebastian of
Bed, Mike Reed of RBC, Osen Quat of
Wells Fargo. The third hour of Bloomberg
surveillance just around the corner.
Nothing matters except AI, [music]
AI, AI, and a little more AI.
>> It's a very narrow market. The earnings
are being drawn very, very small slice.
>> We're in a high-risisk bull market. It
does feel a bit like a meltup. Our
personal view is to hedge. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
[music] Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An
Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like [music] this.
Record highs through Monday. Coming into
Tuesday, equity futures down by just 210
of 1% on the S&P following an 8day
winning run. Quiet at the index level.
Lots to talk about at the individual
[music] single name stock level. Let's
start with Alphabet. $80 billion equity
capital raise and the stock is down by
just 3% this morning
>> after a nearly 120% rally over the past
12 months. This is a $40 billion
so-called at the market program to sell
shares from time to time. [music] This
is $30 billion of underwritten offerings
of shares of mandatory convertible
preferred SC stock as well as and this
is the interesting part $10 billion
coming from Berkshire Hathway. Greg Ael
is putting their cash pile to work. Is
this giving people a sense that this
actually [music] has legs given the fact
that Berkshire Hathway in the past
hasn't been that hot on tech or is this
just a sense there isn't anything else
to invest in right now? If you're gonna
invest in anything, you better get a
hold of some of this AI stuff.
>> So Bergkshire is sitting on what $400
billion cash pal. Let's round it up.
Does it make [music] a difference to you
that it's Greg and not Warren? And if it
was Warren, would you take a different
signal from this this morning?
>> Absolutely. I think Warren Buffett was
pretty vocal. He did take a stake in
Apple. it wasn't necessarily as
profitable as some of his other stakes.
People talked about how he didn't get
his head around some of the technology
[music]
trade that other people did. He didn't
have the same level of success. Greg Ael
clearly is taking a [music] different
tact. At the same time, it clearly is
Bergkshire Hathway and comes in tandem
with other types of investments, the
housing one in particular that are more
traditional in line with the Bergkshire
Hathway types of investments. And when
it comes to Alphabet, [music] when you
have this company, it is almost an
infrastructure play as well. Not just
what is going on in models like Google
Gemini. I go [music] back to what Mandep
said. They are in both places right now.
They are com competitors with anthropic
and open AAI, but absolute [music] they
are competing with Nvidia because they
have the chips as well.
>> They're just exploiting pockets of
liquidity up and down a capital
structure. They've been [music] so busy
all year. $60 billion fourmonth debt
bench. I know I've repeated that number
a few times, but [music] that's massive.
That is bigger than they borrowed in the
debt market in the whole history of the
company up [music] until the last 6
months or so.
>> I'm losing sense of scope when we start
talking about numbers like this. You
were joking before about a billion here
and a billion there.
>> It's difficult to internalize these
numbers.
>> I'm struggling to put that in
perspective with the grocery prices or
my day-to-day life. And I know that
might not necessarily be relevant.
Groceries versus an AI company are
completely separate. [music] But do
these valuations make sense in the price
environment that we have currently or
does there have to be a rejiggering of
our sense of the world? And I don't mean
to be too philosophical, but this is
ultimately where it comes to the [music]
underlying economy and it comes to the
question of the bond market. At what
point are we either underpricing growth
and inflation or are we overpricing the
hopes and dreams of AI?
>> Well, let's start with capital
constraints and a signal you get from
price. Not seeing push back in the debt
market to Alphabet. They raised a lot of
money. There was a lot of demand. They
had to go into different currencies to
do it. They were smart about it, but
didn't see much push back. And you have
to say, and we mentioned this a few
times already this morning, pull up
Alphabet [music] again. Look at the
stock price. Not seeing much push back
at the single name level either.
Alphabet [music] is down by 2.8%.
>> The signal here is go for it. If you
want an IPO or you want to raise money
in the equity market, now is your time.
Which is why you have a race right now
between OpenAI and Enthropic. The Dario
Emod versus Sam Alman create that video.
So, I'm willing to watch uh the sort of
rivalry coming to the four of who's
going to get there first.
>> Well, I do like the timing cuz as I've
said, Alphabet got there first.
>> They're like,
>> they saw what was on the horizon and
they said, "No, thank you. We're public
already. We'll have some of that."
>> Yeah. Hold our beer.
>> Thank you very much.
>> And guess what? We did it [music] really
well.
>> Bigger than the SpaceX IPO, this capital
raise. Coming up, we'll catch up with
Monica Desenso of JP Morgan as capital
demands ramp up. [music] Colin Sebastian
of Bed as Alphabet looks to raise $80
billion and Osen Quad of Wells Fargo on
how the mega IPOs could be a headwind
for the stock market. We begin this out
with stocks holding on to record highs
as Alphabet is planning to raise $80
billion in equity capital. Monica
Desenser of JP Morgan Private Bank
saying the following. Stay invested in
the AI super cycle, but be selective.
Monica joins us now for more. Monica,
good morning. Good to see you.
>> Morning. Thank I'm just thinking about
the clients that you speak to,
investors, individuals, families, family
offices. How much exposure do they have
to these names already through private
markets?
>> It's funny, talk about private markets
with everything that's happening, these
headlines overnight. I think so many
people assumed that's where you had to
be to get the value today to play AI and
then you see this news overnight and you
realize maybe there are more
opportunities in public markets. Now,
you look at a name like Alphabet, which
has run over 100% in the last year, and
to see it holding in this well this
morning is pretty interesting. And so I
think the bottom line is there are
absolutely opportunities in private
markets, but there's still a lot to do
in the public side. As companies make
investments and you look at these
companies like like Alphabet with a
significant free cash flow generation,
it still feels like there's value on
both sides.
>> Where do you think the value is then in
the equity market? Let's explore that a
little bit more on the public side.
Where do you see at the moment?
>> You know, at the beginning of the year,
we were a little worried, right? Because
you looked at valuations over 20 times,
you know, earnings growth high single
digits. You said, "Okay, maybe that's
about where it should be, maybe a little
stretched." And then you had all the
geopolitical fears and you said okay can
we actually hold on to 20 plus times and
now here we are and what's happened
obviously earnings have significantly
outpaced what we thought but it's not
just earnings growth it's revenues are
accelerating margins are expanding and
again it's not just tech it's you're
actually seeing breadth because a year
ago the big concern was it's just the
mag 7 it's just tech we're seeing that
margin expansion in most sectors
actually and so that's what's really
interesting that you're finally seeing
some of this followthrough in the market
to me that tells me fundamentals
actually might be better than people
thought and maybe 20 times isn't
outlandish for equity markets.
>> What's driving the broadening out? It's
certainly not coming from a cheaper
commodity prices. It's not coming from
disinflation. So where is it coming
from?
>> It's funny because a year ago, year plus
ago, everyone would push back and say
how can margins expand and that's where
you get to this AI story and you haven't
seen it, I think, as significant as it
will be. But I do wonder, are you
starting to see some benefit from these
investments? Again, it's really hard to
put numbers around it. And I think
that's where the market struggles.
That's where investors struggle because
if I can't put an estimate on it, how
can I look at a valuation and say this
stock is worth, you know, X in two
years, but it seems like it has to be
there. And then you wonder, okay,
companies raised prices, never actually
took them back down if there's been some
moderation in the rate of inflation, and
that obviously helps on the margin side
as well.
>> There's always some unknown when you're
investing in technological in uh
technological cycle. But if I think
about say the industrial revolution with
the train, you're investing a train to
get from here to there. With this, it's
different. people don't totally
understand exactly what iteration is
going to be uh one at the end of
whatever this is. How difficult is it to
remain nimble and to remain live at a
time of such incredible uncertainty
around the thesis that's raising
trillions of dollars?
>> I I think it's really difficult. It's
why you've seen this concentration I
think in these tech names, right? Those
are the deep pockets, clear
beneficiaries at the beginning when we
talk about being nimble, being
selective. Now, most of my clients are
saying, "Where else can I invest? Where
are the sectors that haven't worked? Who
could be a beneficiary of AI?" And I
look at something like financials. Um,
you know, sector that's been down while
the S&P is up over the last few months
and yet probably stands to benefit from
rates hanging in here. And certainly, if
you're a financial institution, you will
benefit from AI. Makes it easier to
underwrite credit if you get a little
smarter, a little more nimble in some of
your businesses. And suddenly, you can
make an argument for another sector to
benefit. And so, I think that's where
we're trying to look is who hasn't
participated in this rally. Another
sector that I love looking at
healthcare. If you believe in AI, how
can there not be significantly more
innovation on the biotech side, you
know, globally? And you have seen a
dislocation between healthcare and tech
over the last couple years. And so,
>> is it on the margins is why you say the
upside is underappreciated when it comes
to AI. Is it on the margins of these
other sectors that could benefit?
>> I think it's just I used to be a
sellside analyst. You we'd estimate
numbers going up one or two quarters.
That's kind of what you did. How do you
predict three, four years out and
actually do a DCF and figure out what
these stocks are worth when you have
really no idea how to put pen to paper
on this? I think that's what the market
struggles with. It's what investors
struggle with. And so when you have
these like game shifting things that
happened in the dotcom bubble as well,
um you people struggle because it's
really hard to see five years out. And
so that makes equity investing a bit
challenging. And I think again it's why
people go to the obvious places, but now
we're starting to see money want to
shift to other areas. And this is going
to be the challenge over the next year.
who are the next you know two to three
um sectors that will benefit from this
>> you say the critical question for every
client is your portfolio built for a
world of higher and more volatile
inflation are your clients right now
more concerned about AI and the future
and how to predict this four or five
years or actually the conflict in the
Middle East or people have just
completely moved on
>> it's so funny the questions around the
conflict in the Middle East beginning of
the year it was all about AI and is it a
bubble that has dissipated I think
because this earning story has started
to calm those fears then it's about the
Middle East yet to your point. I don't
see portfolios that reflect this fear
about higher rates, higher inflation.
And so, and that's normal. People tend
to, you know, kind of lag a little bit
with these shifts. But after this equity
rally, I think you have to look even at
some of these tech names and say, okay,
should I take a little bit off the table
and think about rebalancing? Do I have
enough in the sectors that will benefit
if inflation remains sticky higher? So,
I think again core real estate,
infrastructure, um, things like that. We
look at large family offices we work
with still significantly underallocated
to where they say they want to be and I
think no one wants to chase but like it
does feel like you probably need to have
a little more balance there. These
things didn't matter in your portfolio
five or 10 years ago when rates were
lower. Now they're going to be much more
important. I think
>> Monica this was smart. It's always good
to catch up with you. Thank you. We
appreciate it. Thank you Monica Denso
there of JP Morgan Private Bank on the
opportunities in public markets still
with this big push from some major
companies.
>> Now it's who's the next one? Uh we heard
that yesterday. Who is going to be the
next anthropic or open AI in this time
where everyone can be in a
billion-dollar company? Why not you
start it in your in your college dorm
room? I mean, that's essentially the
hope and dream.
>> You got plans, Brema?
>> I mean, I don't plan to go back to
college, but I do think that, you know,
this is the discussion among a number of
college kids
>> at home. Is this Kazramo again?
[laughter] Is this dinner time?
Actually, there was a really good oped
by a Stanford uh by a Stanford senior
who was talking about how everybody felt
like, well, you know, have you created a
billion-dollar company yet in your dorm
room? Because I'm working on online.
>> Oh my goodness. And if you haven't,
you're behind
>> and if you bet I couldn't handle that.
>> I mean, Torson Slot just put out a note
about how this is accelerating job
creation and company creation because
everyone wants to have a small business.
I can have it at my kitchen.
>> I was reading the Bernie Sanders oped
and I was just looking at things in a
different way. I'll be sitting this out
and then we'll just tax everyone 50%,
right? Mhm.
>> Is that is that is that what you're
going
>> That's what Bernie's going to do.
>> Yeah. That's the legislation.
>> What Bernie would like to do?
>> That's the legislation.
>> Senator Sanders, I should say.
>> Yes.
>> That's the legislation he's going to be
introducing. He wants Americans to have
direct ownership in these AI companies
because he says they are using our
culture, our history, everything humans,
Americans have put out there to compute
all of this and create all of this.
>> So, look, whenever these conversations
start, they're always anchored to the
crazy, to the extreme. So yes, you can
say some of that is extreme and it won't
happen, but that's the start of the
conversation that's going to build up
into the midterms, then build up a
little bit more into 28. And what do you
think the Democratic primary is going to
sound like on this issue in the next few
years? What do you think it's going to
sound like? What kind of policy
proposals do you think are going to come
out of that?
>> It's not just Democrats, it's also
Republicans. We're seeing this pretty
broad-based. I asked a banker, does this
present a problem for some of the tech
companies that are going to be issuing
debt considering the potential
regulatory overhang and the potential
push back? He said it actually
accelerated valuations because there is
a race to build out data centers as
quickly as you can now before they get
>> better regulated and then it will
improve the valuations of those data
centers. So you know either way things
even the Trump administration is telling
Meta Microsoft you need to subsidize
Americans electricity bills when it
comes to those data centers. Second
>> Steve Bannon says that Bernie Sanders
doesn't go far enough. Steve Bannon was
a key architect to Donald Trump's rise.
So, it's not just going to be the
Democratic primary, it's also going to
be the Republican primary.
>> It's just the start of the conversation.
NASDAQ futures this morning down by just
a tenth of 1%. Let's get you an update
on stories worldwide this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more.
Hi, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Alphabets is raising $80
billion through a package of equity
offerings, including an investment deal
with Berkshire Hathaway. The move
underscores just how [music] expensive
the AI race has become with the company
planning to use the money to build out
AI infrastructure and meet growing
demand for its chips. Meanwhile, Apple
is planning a new iPhone feature that
will let users split bills for group
dinners [music] or other events. The
feature tied to Apple Cash will allow
users to take a picture of a [music]
receipt, assign items to different
people, and generate payment requests.
And in sports, Serena Williams is
returning to tennis. The [music] 23-time
Grand Slam singles champ will play
doubles with a yet to be revealed
partner at next week's Queens [music]
Club tournament in London. 44year-old
Williams is making her return nearly
four years after [music] stepping away
from the sport. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program, the
morning calls, plus Colin Sebastian of
bed on Alphabet's historic spending
surge. That conversation up next, live
from New York City this morning. [music]
Good morning.
I think it's still early innings. I do
think the questions [music] will start
to be asked in terms of when is the
payback on this capex because these
numbers are staggering. where I start
maybe start to worry in the market is
[music] if the rally becomes broader. I
could see a world where there's so much
um frenzy around AI that anything that
even touches the supply chain gets uh
seen as a AI beneficiary.
>> That was Mu of PSP growth just fantastic
a little bit earlier on this morning. If
you're just joining us this morning,
good morning to you all. Equity futures
pulling back just a little bit. We're
down 0.2 on the S&P. On the NASDAQ,
we're down by 0.1. That's the price
action this morning. Let's get you some
morning calls. First up, Goldman downing
into it to sell, [music] saying
estimates are too high as it faces
heightened competition. Your second call
from JP Morgan nearly doubling its price
target on Crowd Strike to 800, saying
it's one of the best position names to
benefit from securing AI. [music] Just
can't keep up. And finally, Bank of
America raising its price target on HP
to a street high 80 bucks, citing strong
demand and further wins in networking.
That stock this morning up by 28%.
[music]
Let's talk about tech and the AI race
continuing to heat up. Anthropic
confidentially filing for what's
expected to be a massive IPO ahead of
its longtime rival OpenAI. Bloomber's Ed
Ledllo tracking a story for us. Ed, good
morning. Talk about that race. SpaceX
anthropic open AAI. We have to start
with Alphabet because Alphabet got there
first. What is the window that Alphabet
was looking at?
>> Yeah, I mean $80 billion. It's hard to
kind of say, well, is that a lot of
money? It's more than SpaceX plans to to
go to to market for in an IPO. The
structure of it is very interesting. You
know, Burkshire Halfway quietly at the
end of last year started building a
position. It adds 10 billion uh to that
and then the ATM mechanism for 40 is
kind of like helping the market ease
into it. But I think the main point
being that you know Google or Alphabet
has warned pretty clearly that capital
expenditures beyond this current year uh
will be higher right $190 billion this
year. I think the team at Bloomberg
Intelligence think 300 billion a $300
billion capex year is possible. The
money has to come from somewhere even if
your cash generation is really strong.
So it was not a shocker but it was a big
piece of news after market last night.
um that puts this if you want to go to
the IPOs it's a race for capital right
rather than the the race to to to list
in in alphabet.
>> So Ed, how did you think about the last
24 hours? Just to put a button on it,
did you see it more as about not about
how much they'll be spending but how
they'll be financing it? Was that what
the last 24 hours was really about?
>> You know, I I hammered the phones. There
is I think I've said this on the show in
the last 10 days. There is not infinite
liquidity or infinite capital out there.
And so in in a year where SpaceX tries
to raise $75 billion at that valuation
andropic and open AI may go in the fall
and there is commonality in the existing
cap table and then those cornerstone or
crossover investors that come in. People
have to make decisions. Um and you see
that reflected in the most recent
private round activity. People that
backed anthropic at $965 billion
valuation were already on the cap table
at OpenAI and are making decisions. But
that's certainly the feedback I've been
getting in people I've been speaking to
that that that the anthropic filing
confidentially is first mover advantage.
But it's not just a race to go public.
If you fold Alphabet and what happened
in last night, it is a race to secure
capital where capital is not infinite.
Ed, great framing buddy. Looking forward
to the program. Bloomberg Technology in
a few hours time. Ed Lau alongside
Caroline Hyde. The race for capital in
both the debt market and now the equity
market as well. Colin Sebastian of bed
writing the following. We view these new
offerings as yet another indication of
the scale and urgency of the AI
infrastructure buildout along with the
scale of demand. Colin joins us now for
more. Colin, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> Good morning. Thank you for having me.
>> Let's just talk about the scale of
supply and how much demand there is
there to meet it. There's going to be a
lot of supply in the next 12 months.
>> There will be a lot of supply and even
then it's capacity constrained and I
think what we're seeing is this AI race
is now quickly becoming a capital
markets race. And I think to put in
perspective, we've already seen over
$600 billion dollars raised in the past
two years through a combination of of
debt and equity to fund the buildout. So
we're still in the midstream of of this
amazing this massive uh buildout.
>> Where is the money coming from?
>> It's coming from a combination of the
private markets, the public markets,
equity and debt, and really I think a
lot of constituents that have a stake in
AI. Obviously, a lot of funding of
companies from the hyperscalers
themselves. What I'm getting at is how
much is coming from investments in tech
in other instruments? How much is coming
from say bonds? How much is coming from
just the money market funds that people
talk about going to 8 trillion? How much
uh will these pools of capital be drawn
away from other assets that could
potentially see a detriment as a result?
>> Well, I think we're in that point in
time when AI perhaps is the best use of
cash for a lot of these companies. And
so yes, it might draw capital from from
other pools. At the same time, the a lot
of the companies we're talking about now
are some of the biggest producers of
cash, for example, Alphabet. So for them
as in terms of capital allocation, it's
makes the most sense for them to invest
in this area right now, which protects
search, which protects cloud in instead
of uh perhaps other investments.
>> How do you wrap your h head around
valuations that are so significant? How
do you wrap your head around trying to
game out revenues over the next five
years given how quickly they've been
expanding over the past two?
>> Well, look, it's it's a great question.
ROI is the big question here. And you
know, we have a survey which we'll
announce this week that 100% of
enterprises surveyed are now deploying,
not experimenting, but deploying AI.
It's a big change from just the last 12
months. So I think the indications are
there that we're on the cusp of a hockey
stick in revenues and that justifies I
think in the minds of a lot of these
companies the amount of infrastructure
that's being that's being built.
>> Was 80 billion enough?
>> Well, it's it's a it's part of it's a
stepping stone, right? 600 billion in
the last two years. 80 billion is
actually not a significant part of that
amount. I guess it's meaningful. Uh but
it's not the end of the road.
>> So they can keep doing this.
>> They can keep doing this. Look, we
project a trillion dollars of capex next
year from the hypers scalers for the AI
buildout. 80 billion on a trillion is is
still not likely enough. But remember,
Alphabet is probably the best producer
of cash in the world and they have a
massive business which is already
benefiting from AI.
>> To your point, they're already a cash
machine. They've just borrowed a lot of
money in the debt market. They're
borrowing 80 billion. If you need to
borrow numbers like that to be a player,
how high are the barriers to entry to
this business already?
>> Well, these are these are large moes
that are being created and it's it's a
great point because it's it's it's not
really who has the best model anymore.
It's who has the ability to fund this
buildout through the capital markets.
That is the new moat. At least that's
the moat this year. And so, thus we're
seeing other companies go public, reach
out to the capital markets. Um, a lot of
the constituents here are trying to
participate. Who are they locking out?
Right? We keep talking about the winners
and how much they're gaining and how
their revenues are expanding. Who are
seeing their revenues shrink or
collapse.
>> I don't know that we're seeing anyone
else's revenues collapse. It's it's
really part of this transformation
towards AI and and you know, I think the
way we look at it is the infrastructure
part which is obviously a lot of the
investment. We know who the winners are
here already, but it's a lot of the same
companies that we saw in the cloud
transition. Google, Amazon, Microsoft
for example. Uh and then in the models
we know who the winners are there. It's
really the application side. This is
where s software and SAS is getting you
know certainly has been hit quite hard.
That's where the uncertainty is and
that's where we might see some of the
revenue
>> dis because increasingly people think
that would just be commoditized.
>> Yes. the commoditization of applications
AI native applications emerging which
threaten the existing SAS group and a
lot of uncertainty around around the
future of how people will use AI that's
very different than the infrastructure
side which is of course the physical
side of AI which we can see already I
think happening
>> we're struggling to figure this out in
real time Colin it's good to see you
thank you for putting a piece of the
puzzle together Colin Sebastian have bed
we've got no idea what the picture looks
like in a few years time
>> yeah I I keep going back to Jim Karen He
uh is over at Morgan Stanley and he said
this. The key investment question for
2026 isn't whether growth collapses,
it's whether investors can adapt to a
world where nominal growth, inflation,
and interest rates all settle
structurally higher than the last
decade. If everyone's making money and
everyone's expanding and everyone's
investing trillions of dollars, well,
that's going to have to come with both
faster growth, but also faster
inflation. and wrapping your head around
that after three decades of financial
repression is very difficult for a lot
of
>> that is not the original argument the
incoming Fed chair was making about
interest rates at least. So, it's going
to be interesting to see how he thinks
about these issues in a few weeks time
at the news conference,
>> especially because there's a huge
question mark around it. I mean, we
can't say any of this definitively. Even
people who are in it can't game out
exactly what this is going to look like
at the end, but based on these numbers,
it certainly is presenting a picture
that you at least have to consider.
>> We'll talk about policy in just a
moment. Up next, we'll catch up with
Michael Reid of RBC on why the Fed will
be shifting its focus for Friday's
payrolls print. Plus, Danny has got your
morning movers. Another check in on HPE.
Check out the name crushing estimates.
To see the name up like that up 27% in
the pre-market. A story just around the
corner.
[music]
The up and down about 60 minutes away.
Equity futures pulling back by [music] a
tenth of 1%. We're down by 0.15 on the
S&P pulling back from all-time highs on
the NASDAQ pretty much unchanged. Let's
get you some single names, some morning
[music] movers. Danny Burgerer has more.
Hey Danny. Hey John. Alphabet out with
an 80 billion equity race. It is huge
figures for them and decisively changes
the AI capital expenditure stories from
one that was about balance sheet and
debt [music] to one that is a capital
markets event. Remember, this is the
same pool of capital that's also going
to be competing for money with all these
mega IPOs coming to market. At the end
of the day, it is a dilutive event.
Shares down 2.8% for Alphabet. [music]
Elsewhere to the upside this morning,
HPE out with Blockbuster earnings. They
beat expectations. [music]
They also raised their guidance. They
give an early forecast for next year,
which is rare. Uh they make networking
equipment for data centers. So, they are
a popular business right now. Shares up
27 and a3%. Finally, in earnings, we
also heard from Victoria Secret a huge
beat. Their profit was more than double
what was expected. They also upgrade
their expectations. Uh it also probably
helps them this morning that there was a
large short position out against
Victoria [music] Secret. So, they're up
38%. Um Satrini making the point that
really dictating spending and style is
women who are 18 and in their 20s and
portfolio managers are decidedly [music]
not women 18 to and in their 20s. So
maybe a big value gap presents itself
for a company like Victoria Secret. John
>> Danny, thank you. There's a point well
made. Appreciate it. Danny Burgerer with
the latest. [music] There's a couple of
names this morning that make a lot of
sense from a fundamental perspective. I
know the move in HP is large, but the
beat was large as [music] well. So
directionally you sort of understand
that move. Then you look at something
like Marll, right? You've got the Nvidia
boss [music] invested in the name coming
out and saying this might be the next
trillion dollar name and you get a
moonshot at a single name level. They're
the kind of moves where you sort of go,
h that's maybe a little bit too much.
>> Yeah. Although I wouldn't be necessarily
following the crowd, then the crowd will
turn around and say, we won. Uh so
essentially that tends to [music] be the
play that has worked and how many people
jump on a train within Jensen and Wong
and buy some, [music] you know, leather
jackets and they end up in a good supply
>> just to differentiate between the moves.
Anyway,
>> 100%. Absolutely. One is vibes and one
[music] is reality.
>> Well framed futures this morning down
about 210 of 1%. Lots of data for the
week ahead. We've got a full slate for
you leading up to Friday's payrolls
report. ISM data more recently showing
US manufacturing expanding by the most
in four years. We're now looking ahead
to Jolts at 10 a.m. Eastern time before
we get ADP claims and then payrolls on
Friday. Bloomberg's Ender Curran joins
us now from Washington for more. Ender,
welcome back to the program. Let's get
the update. So ISM manufacturing
headline level really quite strong. I
think 54. What did you read in the
details beneath the surface?
>> Manufacturing was strong across the
board, John. Almost all the sectors
except the wood sector actually saw
growth. And that's really interesting
given we all know the backstory about
how manufacturing has been struggling.
People are saying it's not just linked
to the inventory story on the back of
the Iran war with companies rushing to
stock up inventories ahead of any price
shock there. It's also reflecting
pent-up demand. So, it's a strong good
news story in the manufacturing side.
And by the way, manufacturing sector is
expected to feed into the strong jobs
report due at the end of the week as
well. So we're off to a strong start.
The job openings data coming later today
as well also expected to show an uptick
in in the labor market. So certainly it
seems to be shaping up to be a firm week
uh for the economic data.
>> So we've all seen these massive numbers
$80 billion capital raise over at
Alphabet. We know a lot of companies are
coming public to fund a lot of
infrastructure investment, data centers,
chips and the like. and how much of
these data points that we're seeing,
these big moves, this nice momentum
we're starting to build in things like
ISM manufacturing are just that one
particular part, one specific part of
the US economy driven by tech.
>> Well, I mean that has to be a big part
of it. Um, John, we know that the AI
boom, the AI, the data center buildout,
the equipment that's needed for that,
the import boom that that's associated
with that that is driving demand for
labor. And in particular, we're starting
to hear now in the construction sector
uh complaints of labor shortages. Now,
that obviously reflects the immigration
story as well, but it is also reflecting
the AI boom story. Uh so there's no
doubt AI is front and center to what's
going on. However, equally, there is a
bit of a sting in the tail there. H
because if you listen to the Fed policy
makers in recent weeks and indeed other
economists are saying the inflation
story is no longer just about tariffs.
It's no longer just about the Iran war.
It's also now reflecting what's going on
with this AI boom given the demand for
the inputs and the components that are
imported, the equipment and the
machinery and now of course the workers.
All of that is too adding to upward
pressure on inflation. So AI boom
driving activity and capex but also
having some impact on the inflationary
side
>> and good to see you buddy down in
Washington. We'll catch up later this
week. More data still to come and
current there. Speaking of the Fed, Beth
Hammock of the Cleveland Fed saying this
might soon be appropriate to act if the
inflation trend persists, setting up for
a more hawkish relative to the last
meeting meeting coming up later this
month.
>> These comments are coming in prepared
remarks that are coming out. She's in
Cleveland at an event. She has been more
hawkish, which is notable. At the same
time, this is a new layer that it's not
just a theoretical hiking bias, but it's
actually the potential for the Federal
Reserve to consider an action. Right
now, most people in markets think the
Fed will jawbone the market with some
sort of equal or neutral positioning
whether there actually is willingness to
hike rates though, a lot more
skepticism.
>> A bit of a communication exercise taking
place over on the FC perhaps. Michael
Reed of RBC calling for 99K in payrolls
on Friday. He writes, "The
interpretation of payroll gains is
changing. We expect the Fed will rely
more on the unemployment rate than the
payroll report to gauge labor market
health." Michael joins us now for more.
Michael, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> So, unemployment 4.3. You expected it to
stay at 4.3.
>> Well, we think the uh odds of the
unemployment rate ticking down are
greater than the odds of it ticking up
in this case. So, you have the break
even pace of employment, which we
estimate is quite low, maybe around
20,000 per month right now. Uh, so if
you get three consecutive months of
gains over 100,000, that points to a
potential downward surprise.
>> When do they start to worry about wage
inflation off the back of a move like
that? At what point, what number do they
start to get nervous at the at the
Federal Reserve?
>> Yeah, I think right now we're not seeing
any signs of wage pressure. I mean, it
has cooled off quite a bit, especially
in some of the sectors that were
overhiring during CO. So, you know, for
for something uh that we see around the
the end of the year, you know, January,
February, when you start to get those
cost of living adjustments, um that's
when we would be more concerned. I think
right now, you're just looking at the
mix of different jobs. And right now,
the the jobs that are being added to
payrolls aren't necessarily um adding to
a wage level that is consistent with
demand um you know, outstripping some of
the supply issues that we're seeing
right now. I'm experiencing cognitive
dissonance right now. I'm having a lot
of trouble because we're having all
these discussions about the trillions of
dollars being raised for tech companies,
about insatiable demand to buy supplies,
about all the capex being built out at
all these different companies, a variety
of different industries, and then we're
talking about anemic wage growth and an
economy that's cooling down in certain
sectors. Can you square those two
stories for me?
>> Yeah, I mean there's there's a lot going
on here. So, if you take uh
manufacturing as a good example, we were
just talking about ISM manufacturing.
Look at the new orders index that's been
up uh quite notably uh this year. At the
same time, their employment index still
in contraction territory. So this is
more a story of productivity um capacity
utilization ticking up. So that that's
one story there. Um at the same time,
when you think about wage growth, um the
way I interpret it in terms of the
payroll report is you look at the
sectors that are hiring. We know
healthcare is going to hire. That that's
going to be our our stalwart. But when
you have sectors like retail trade and
wholesale trade which tend to pay below
average wages adding disproportionate uh
share of jobs that that's going to make
that kind of headline number look a
little bit weaker. So that that's what
we do see is you still have sectors
retail trade um throw in leisure and
hospitality other services which tend to
pay those below average wages. So then
is the wage growth figure accurate to
really reflect the heat in the labor
market? Because ultimately if the
composition of jobs is changing, it
doesn't mean that someone is going from
a high paid job to a lower paid jobs. It
means that people are getting jobs and
they might be lower wage jobs than some
of the others. That doesn't necessarily
speak to weakness. It just speaks to a
job composition story. So we could still
see a labor market broadening out and
strengthening and reaceleration even
with some of this wage data. No.
>> Yeah, we can. and and you can absolutely
see that um you know as as a counter to
some of those sectors that are hiring.
We do see some weakness in your
traditional white collar jobs, finance,
insurance, uh professional services and
that's where some of the pain is being
felt and in particular um in one of our
reports we highlighted that recent grad
cohort. Um, so when you think about the
alignment of folks who are coming out
with a bachelor's degree and have all
that college debt and they're not able
to get a job that maybe they were
expecting and have to settle for
something that pays a little bit lower,
um, that's not going to feel good and I
think that's what we're seeing reflected
in some of the consumer sentiment data
in the conference board. Uh, but at the
same time, they do have a job.
>> Michael Reed, I've got some deflation.
Do you want me to break some news? This
from Shri and the team here at
Bloomberg. The first signs of deflation
associated with tech. Thank you, Elon.
Elon Musk and SpaceX negotiating razor
thin fees to Wall Street firms who were
working on its IPO. If you want the
number, the fee structure thereafter,
they're negotiating to pay less than
0.75
for the $75 billion they're looking to
raise. Sri and the team here at
Bloomberg just breaking that news
moments ago. If you're interested in
what the fees typically look like for a
very small IPO, nothing like this. Let's
say you were raising a billion, you'd be
looking at something around four to 7%.
As you get larger, something closer to
1% maybe, but certainly these bankers,
I'm sure, were looking for something
north of 1%. The fee pool though, still
likely to be around $500 million based
on what they're about to raise. So,
there's plenty of money to go around.
Lots of people are going to make lots of
money and clearly Elon Musk is well
aware of that and is pushing for lower
fees
>> or the reports that David Solomon
personally contacted Elon Musk on X to
try to get some sort of news DMs to try
to get this uh this underwriting
assignment. The uh race to underwrite is
clearly quite significant and Elon Musk
is not one to miss a beat in terms of
leverage use.
>> That's the only deflation I can find.
[laughter]
Everywhere else is inflationary based on
this tech story and Lisa's been talking
about this a lot over the last few
hours. Are you focused on the same
thing? What we hear and what we see
companies raising a lot of money in the
debt market, a lot of money in the
equity market, pushing it into a supply
constrained economy, particularly in the
tech sector, an economy that's faced a
series of negative supply shocks. Is the
end outcome, the end result, just higher
inflation?
>> That's what we expect. I mean, you look
at PPI and and that's where a lot of the
early signs are showing up uh with these
inflationary pressures that you point to
and when you think about also some of
the the worries around uh demand
destruction um we're kind of dismissing
those at least for now uh again because
PPI is just showing strong margin growth
um especially in that wholesale retail
space. Um when you look outside of that
uh it's really hard to point to an area
within PPI that would show prices coming
down. Uh and then of course when you
think about what passes through to the
consumer uh again you have a big part of
the story being housing which we think
that the deflation has uh ended for much
of this year. And then the health care
story is one of of demographics. So you
have continued demand there. Those are
two of the biggest buckets of of the
consumer bucket. So, uh, it just doesn't
paint a picture of inflation slowing or
coming down anytime soon.
>> Michael, it's good to see you. Thank
you, sir. Michael Reed of RBC. This is
the dimension of the news conference of
the Federal Reserve in two weeks time
that I'm more interested in. And it's
also intriguing to me, increasingly so,
that when we talk about inflation, we're
hardly talking about the shock of the
Middle East. It's almost like the shock
in the Middle East just amplified and
put a spotlight on the inflationary
backdrop for the economy more broadly,
particularly with regards to the tech
story. And when you talk to investors at
least through this morning about what
would happen to this conversation if the
straight reopened and that story went
away, they think this would still be a
problem and this would be a Federal
Reserve that would still have to
consider exactly what it's going to
consider in just two weeks on Wednesday.
>> Yeah. Ultimately, even if the conflict
does resolve in the Middle East, people
are saying a oil prices aren't going to
go down that much and b that's not going
to change anything from the inflation.
Uh with respect to AI demand, Beth
Hammock, we were just speaking about the
Cleveland Fed president. She said based
on the data, I'm more concerned about
the growing risks of a persistently
elevated inflation than the risks to
full employment. And also that monetary
policy may not be sufficiently
restrictive to bring inflation down to
2%. She talked about the two-sided risk,
the risk of not doing enough upfront,
allowing inflation to become unchecked
and then having to do so much that
ultimately it torpedoes the economy.
>> Futures this morning negative by a close
to two ten of 1%. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhira has more. Hey
yhara. [music]
>> Hi John. Oh, how the tables have turned.
Anthanthropic moving ahead in the AI
race, filing an IPO ahead of its rival,
Open AI. The company saying in a blog
post that the number of shares to be
offered and the price [music] have not
yet been set. And as you were
discussing, SpaceX is pushing for record
low fees for Wall Street firms handling
its IPO. Still sources telling us here
[music] at Bloomberg that banks are
still poised to collect roughly $500
million from what could be one of the
biggest market debuts ever. The lead
[music] banks Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley are positioned to take in a
larger share of the pool than others
involved. [music]
And in sports, game one of the NBA
Finals tips off in San Antonio tomorrow
night with the Spurs taking on the New
York Knicks. Game three will be played
at Madison Square Garden [music] on
Monday. Single tickets in prime spots
are listed for more than $100,000 on
resale sites [music] and nosebleleed
seats are going for thousands of
dollars. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John.
>> Oh, the K-shaped economy. Just it's just
crazy. [music]
>> This isn't K. This is eye-shaped. This
isn't even eye-shaped. This isn't even a
letter. This is just ridiculous.
>> It's just ridiculous. Truly, New York
sports was crazy. Anyway, I would
complain about the US Open every single
year around September time about how
expensive the tennis tickets were over
at Arthur Ash. This is just another
level. This is bonkers.
>> Down payment on housing. There's [music]
>> seriously a price for everything.
>> Lifetime savings for a lot of people.
>> Crazy.
>> So, is that enough though for a night to
experience your dreams come true?
>> I love sport. Not that much. [laughter]
>> Not that much.
>> Yeah, the price for everything. [music]
>> Up next on the program, we set you up
for the day ahead. Plus, Osen Quan of
Wells Fargo on how historic IPOs could
be [music] a headwind for tech from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
This is not even close to the 2000
cycle. The only comparison [music] is
animal spirits. This is a major
infrastructure roll out. Nothing that
we've seen in a in my lifetime. What's
fueling this market is a cloud titans
and it's going to go for a while. You
just put gas on a fire. Fantastic
conversation earlier this morning with
Ted Morrison [music] of BAD on how
Alphabet just extended the runway for
capex investment with an $80 billion
equity capital raise. If you're
wondering what happens in commercial
breaks, I often share some of that with
you. [laughter]
All these conversations about AI, capex,
intensity, [music]
tech revolutions, alphabet, etc., etc.
Bremo has not talked [music] about
anything but barnacles on vessels in the
straight of Formuz for the last 3 hours.
>> Okay. I I have talked about other
things, but [music] that's been the bulk
of it. I've been really interested in
some of the tangible ramifications of
ships hanging out in the street of
Hermuz. So, what's the problem? Where
are we at? that barnacle growth is a
real problem in the stream of Ramos in
that in that region with the [music] and
as well as algae and and and other
things and jellyfish and it's clogging
up the propellers. It's clogging up all
sorts of the functioning of these ships.
So, they've got to clear out all the
barnacles and algae and jellyfish in
order to even get moving again.
According to the Financial Times, it's a
huge issue uh [music] in terms of
degrading their speed and fuel
efficiency. So,
okay, this will become a problem maybe,
but the biggest issue is right now
they're trapped. 2,000 trip ships are
trapped. Trader for moose [music] is not
open. And the Chevron CEO Mike said
there's going to be a line. We don't
even know who can get out first, let
alone who's going to be the first one to
go underneath the ship and clean up the
barnacles.
>> Rammo, if you go out for drinks tonight,
you'll lose people at the straight of
muzz. You won't make it to the barnacles
on the vessels. Right. That's that's
where we're at in conversations [music]
right now.
>> Yeah. Which is why I'm not going to be
going out to drinks tonight.
>> Equity futures on the S&P. Neither will
I. [laughter]
>> I was about to say, what are you talking
about?
>> I'm the least social person around the
table. On the NASDAQ right now, just
about unchanged. That's the price
action. This is the week ahead. Some
data a little bit later. 10 a.m. we'll
get jolts. So, look out for that. 1 p.m.
we get a White House press briefing.
Onto tomorrow. Results from Broadcom,
Crowd Strike, plus ADP, Durable Goods,
and ISM services. Claims are on
Thursday. Payrolls are on Friday. In
focus for this market right now though
is the AI arms race heating up with
record spending plans and blockbuster
IPOs on deck. Osen Quat of Wells Fargo
writing, "We continue to expect the
speed of the rally to slow. We remain
bullish on AI, but we believe the mega
IPOs will be a headwind." Osen joins us
now for more. Osen, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> This is a change. We've gone from
shrinkage to a lot of supply on the
horizon. How is that going to change
your approach to this stock market?
Yeah, there's there's more supply and
it's it is a headwind. Uh I don't think
it's going to be a big headwind right
away because the issuance size is
relatively small compared to the overall
market cap of the S&P. Uh but as more
lockoffs expire starting in August and
on, I think in the second half of the
year, I think the setup is more
cautious. Um we essentially went from
being very bullish in April to sort of
starting to moderate the tone a little
bit. Uh we're still more bullish than
bearish. Uh but as we look into the
second half of the year, I think the
market's going to become more volatile.
>> Where are you looking to lighten up in
anticipation of that?
>> Um I think you still have to own AI,
right? I I think you have to own the
underlying AI stocks. Our call is to
sell cover calls uh against it because
call premium is very very rich. Uh it
was basically everyone's consensus that
this is 1999. That's reflected in the
options market. If you look at call
premium, it's it's insane. Uh so we like
selling taking advantage of that high
premium in call options uh against the
underlying assets.
>> What's the hangover from the sugar high
look like? I mean is were we talking
about actual declines some sort of
correction or we just talking about a
cooling out and a flattening out for uh
a number of months?
>> Yeah. So the reason why we like selling
calls over buying puts is because we
don't see that much downside risk either
at least right now because until growth
actually starts to slow down which
hasn't happened yet. Uh or we see more
risk around the AI capex cycle or
monetization which we are not seeing
yet. Uh I think it's too early to be
more bearish. Uh so we like the idea of
you know the rally is likely to slow
down. Uh I I think the sugar high rally
that we were calling for is toward the
uh toward the later innings of the
rally. Uh so if that's the case, I think
you can make extra income by selling
some calls.
>> How much are you seeing certain
companies that are not necessarily
directly related to the AI trade try to
refashion themselves as AI companies?
I'm not just talking about allirds. I'm
talking more broadly about companies
that can say that they too can hinge off
some of the economic expansion tied to
this technology.
>> Yeah, I think some of that is true. um
that if you look at Q1 GDP growth, 1.6%
of GDP growth, 50% of that was driven by
semis and hardware. And if you include
intellectual property, so things like
software, it was 95% of GDP growth that
was driven by basically tech and AI. So
AI is really the economy overall. And I
think that's the rising concern to us
that AI is getting maybe too big that
unless other parts of the economy starts
to grow. There's probably a ceiling on
how much AI can grow. So semisen
hardware right now is about 2.5% of
overall US GDP [clears throat] and based
on hyperscaler's consensus estimates
that number is going to go up to 3%.
It's above the internet peak level 2.9%.
And in line with the railroad investment
cycle back in the 1850s. So this
actually might be as big as it gets
unless other parts of the economy starts
to grow more.
>> You think when it comes to the Fed that
stocks are skewed to the upside when it
comes to Worsh's first meeting even
though everyone knows that they're going
to remove the easing bias. So what's he
going to say that you think Scott stocks
are going to take off?
>> Yeah. No, I think it's going to be tough
for them to out hawk the market. So
already one hike is priced in by
January. So for that for them to out
hawk the market I think it's going to be
difficult.
>> Osen always good to catch up with you
buddy. Thank you Osen Kwan there of West
Fargo on the issuance the supply we'll
see later this year and the volatility
he's expecting.
>> Yeah just the idea his last point there
was really interesting that the economy
has to grow into uh this AI cycle or
else you're going to see some sort of
capping out in just what kind of sugar
high there is. You have to see
participation. You have to see return on
investment. You have to see people keep
up with the numbers that are getting
more and more incomprehensible.
>> They're building out capacity
aggressively and then you ask them to
describe the future. They're not really
sure what it looks like. They're not
really sure what it looks like, but they
have this conviction that the biggest
risk right now is underinvesting. Now,
when you have some of the biggest
companies on the planet with access to
capital markets that they have, both
debt and equity, Alphabet, telling you
something like that, you pay attention.
You take note. And the moment that
Alphabet told us that a few summers ago,
that was a major headline for me. That
was a major statement. Here's a company
telling you exactly what they think
about the risks on the horizon and how
they're going to invest accordingly in
the coming years. And look at the
numbers now.
>> Yeah, they're bearing they're bearing
fruit in a massive way. You just think
about what Peter Shear was talking about
when you talk about the buggy whip and
how they went out of business when an
automobile came and put the horse and
buggy out of uh out of business. Are
cars what they were to humans or are
cars what they are to horses? In other
words, are we the horse or are we the
human? Because ultimately, you knew that
a a railroad was going to move things
from one place to another. A car was
going to move things from one place to
another. Is AI going to help us do our
jobs or will it do the job for us? And
these are the questions that people are
asking. It depends who you ask, but that
is why you see policy makers like what
Jonathan was talking about Bernie
Sanders in opinion piece saying
Americans and everyday individuals
actually need to be the ones that reap
the benefits of this because it is just
too explosive.
>> Enhance or replace
picky poison right now. There's a
message that's more palatable to
Washington and I think for a lot of the
country and [music] maybe Mr. Alman got
the message.
>> AI can't remove barnacles. That's the
reason why fascinating the important
stuff. We know how you'll be spending
the rest of today.
>> 100%.
>> Okay. Seriously. Coming up tomorrow,
stacked lineup for you. Cameron Dawson,
New Edge Wealth, Michelle Weaver, Morgan
Stanley, Libby [music] Cantrol of Pimco,
Alicia Lavine of BNY from New York City
this morning. Good morning. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.